2007_B_76
FACTS
The appellant M/s. Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited is a Government of India Undertaking,under the administrative control of the Ministry of Petroleum &; Natural Gas and is engaged in refining,distributing and selling of petroleum products all over the country. 
The respondent M/s. Great Eastern Shipping Company Limited is engaged in the business of shipping and allied activities and owns a fleet of tanker vessels for charter,including the vessel known as JAG PRAJA. 
An agreement,called the Time Charter Party in legal parlance,was entered into between the appellant and the respondent on 6th May,1997 for letting on hire vessels for a period of two years from 22nd September,1996 to 30th June,1997 and from 1st July,1997 to 30th June,1998,on the terms and conditions set out in the said agreement.
 However,before the Charter Party was to come to an end,on 29th June,1998,the Indian Oil Corporation Limited (for short IOC ),acting as agent of the appellant,issued a fax to various ship owners,including the respondent herein,requesting them to extend the validity of the Charter Party Agreement dated 6th May,1997 beyond 30th June,1998 for a period of one month from 1st July,1998 with option for two further extensions of 15 days each.
 The respondent agreed to the said proposal. Accordingly,on 29th June,1998 an addendum was signed between the parties whereby the validity period of Charter Party was extended for one month with an option for two further extensions for a period of 15 days each.
 The terms and conditions; exceptions and exemptions contained in the Charter Party dated 6th May,1997 remained unaltered. 
The parties are ad idem that the Charter Party dated 6th May,1997 was extended till 31st August,1998. It appears that since Charter Party dated 6th May,1997 was coming to an end on 31st August,1998,the Oil Companies sought permission of the Oil Co-ordination Committee,a wing of the Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas for further extension of the Charter Party. 
However,the Oil Coordination Committee,by their fax message dated 26th August,1998,declined the request of the Oil Companies,including the appellant,for further extension of Charter Party beyond 31st August,1998.
The said fax message was an internal communication between the Oil Coordination Committee and the Oil Companies. 
Thereafter,in September,1998,the IOC for and on behalf of the Oil Industry,floated a fresh tender for carriage of petroleum products along the Indian coast on time charter basis for a period of one year commencing from 1st September,1998 to 31st August,1999,on the terms and conditions set out in the tender document.
 In response to the said tender,the respondent and other vessel owners submitted their bids. 
It seems that being aggrieved of the decision of the IOC to invite revised price bids after opening of the sealed tenders,one of the bidders filed a writ petition in the Bombay High Court,questioning the said decision.
ISSUE
Whether the Hon ble Arbitral Tribunal has no jurisdiction to adjudicate upon the dispute between the Claimant and the Respondent for the period September,1998 to August,1999. in respect of the vessel Jag Praja for the reasons stated in para 1 of the written statement.
Whether there is any common practice that if the vessel is not re-delivered at the end of the period mentioned in the time charter the vessel would be governed by the charter party under which originally it was chartered. 
Whether the time charter party dated 6th. May,1997 came to an end by efflux of time on 30th August,1998.  
The short question for determination is whether on the expiry of the extended period of charter hire on 31st August,1998,Charter Party dated 6th May,1997 came to an end and the arbitration agreement between the parties perished with it.  
STATUTE
It would be appropriate to refer to Cls.4 and 23 of the Charter Party dated 6th May,1997.
These are in the following terms: "4.Delivery &; Redelivery 4.1. 
The vessel shall continue to be on charter to charterers in direct continuation from 2348 hrs.22.09.1996 to 30.06.1998.
The vessel shall be re-delivered by charterers to owners on dropping last outward pilot at any port on west coast of India at charterers option.
 Charterers to give owners 15 days notice to probable port of re-delivery. 4.2 Charterers to load last three cargoes clean and re-deliver the vessel in clean condition.  
ANALYSIS
That neither the Arbitral Tribunal nor the High Court have gone into the question whether the claim made by the respondent would otherwise fall within the ambit of the arbitration clause in the Charter Party or not. 
What is in dispute is whether the arbitration agreement between the parties had got extinguished after 31st August,1998,i.e.the date of expiry of the extended period of the Charter Party. 
It is,no doubt,true that the general rule is that an offer is not accepted by mere silence on the part of the offerree,yet it does not mean that an acceptance always has to be given in so many words.
 Under certain circumstances,offerree s silence,coupled with his conduct,which takes the form of a positive act,may constitute an acceptance an agreement sub silentio. 
Therefore,the terms of a contract between the parties can be proved not only by their words but also by their conduct. 
In our view,the principle of sub silentio is clearly attracted in the present case.
There was no response by the appellant to respondent s letter dated 4th January,1999 though it appears that vide their letter of even date,the appellant did suggest to the respondent that as a token of formal agreement the said letter may be jointly signed by the charterers and the vessel owners.
 Admittedly,no such agreement was signed between the parties.
 Indubitably,there was no further exchange of correspondence between the parties during the year.
On a conjoint reading of the clauses,it is plain that the appellant was under an obligation to re-deliver the vessel as per the procedure contemplated in the afore-noted clauses. 
Indisputably,the vessel in question had not been re-delivered at least during the relevant period and the appellant continued to use the vessel beyond 31st August,1998.
Having failed to re-deliver the vessel in terms of Cl.4.1 of the Charter Party,the appellant cannot plead that the Charter Party had been fully worked out. 
It is clear from the pleadings and issue No.2,framed by the Arbitral Tribunal,that it was respondent s consistent stand that since the hired vessel had not been re-delivered at the end of the time charter party,the vessel would be governed by the terms and conditions in the Charter Party dated 6th May,1997. 
However,the Arbitral Tribunal answered the said issue against the respondent. 
It appears to us that even the question in regard to the effect and consequences of non-delivery of the vessel in terms of the Cl.4.1 and 23 would by itself be a dispute arising under the said Charter Party .With. respect. the learned Arbitral Tribunal overlooked this aspect of the matter. 
Resultantly,the appeal being devoid of any merit is liable to be dismissed,which we do,leaving the parties to bear their own costs.  
FINAL JUDGEMENT
Though performance of the Charter Party agreement dated 6th May,1997 may have come to an end on 31st August,1998. but it was still in existence for some purposes,viz.the effect of vessel s non re-delivery as per the prescribed mechanism and its continued use beyond the stipulated time. and,thus,the arbitration clause in the said Charter Party operated in respect of these and other allied purposes. 
Therefore,the factual scenario in the instant case leads to an inescapable conclusion that notwithstanding the expiry of the period fixed in the time charter party dated 6th May,1997,the said charter party did not get extinguished,inter alia,for the purpose of determination of the disputes arising thereunder and the arbitration clause contained therein could be invoked by the respondent. 
In view of the foregoing discussion,we do not find any infirmity in the view taken by the High Court that Charter Party dated 6th May,1997 had not come to an end by efflux of time and it got extended by the conduct of the parties,warranting interference.  
That it would be proper and expedient to constitute a fresh Arbitral Tribunal. Accordingly,we constitute an Arbitral Tribunal consisting of Justice M.Jagannadha Rao (Presiding Arbitrator),Justice D.P.Wadhwa and Justice S.N.Variava,former Judges of this Court to adjudicate upon the claim/counter claim by the parties,subject to their consent and such terms and conditions as they may deem fit and proper.
 It goes without saying that the learned Tribunal shall deal with the matter uninfluenced by any observations in this order on the respective stands of the parties.
The Registry is directed to communicate this order to the learned Members of the Arbitral Tribunal to enable them to enter upon the Reference and decide the matter as expeditiously as practicable.
 Appeal dismissed.  
ARGUMENT
Learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant has assailed the impugned order on the sole ground that the Charter Party dated 6th May,1997 having come to an end by efflux of time on 31st August,1998,the arbitration clause contained in it also perished and,therefore,in the absence of a fresh arbitration agreement,claim of the respondent relating to the period 1st September,1998 to 31st August,1999 could not be referred to arbitration by invoking arbitration clause in Charter Party dated 6th May,1997.
Laying emphasis on the fax message dated 26th August,1998 addressed by the Oil Co-ordination Committee to the oil companies,including the appellant,inter alia,informing them that no further extension of the Current Charter Hire Rate will be allowed,learned counsel submitted that the said message made it clear to all concerned that Charter Party dated 6th May,1997 would not be extended under any circumstance. 
Shyam Divan,learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent,on the other hand,submitted that notwithstanding the fact that the period fixed originally under the Charter Party or under the Addendum dated 29th June,1998 had come to an end,the subsequent conduct of the parties goes to show that charter of the vessel by the appellant beyond 31st August,1998 continued to be governed by the terms and conditions stipulated in charter party dated 6th May,1997 and,therefore,an arbitration agreement did exist between the parties. 
Learned counsel argued that even otherwise till the vessel was not re-delivered in terms of Cls.4 and 23 of Charter Party dated 6th May,1997,the said agreement could not come to an end.
 It was pointed out that all the obligations of the owners as well as of the charterers during the period the vessel was in use continued to be discharged under the Charter Party dated 6th May,1997 even after the expiry of the period of the Charter Party. In support of the proposition that the concurrence of a party can be gathered from his conduct,like continued user of the vessel in the present case,without any objection to respondent s letter dated 4th January,1999,reliance is placed on a decision of this Court in The Godhra Electricity Co. Ltd.&; Anr. Vs. The State of Gujarat &; Anr 1974 Indlaw SC 253.
 It was also submitted that the view taken by the High Court being a plausible view,interference in exercise of extra-ordinary jurisdiction u/art.136 of the Constitution is unwarranted.
