I have been implicated in this case falsely.
Mother of Mukhtiar Kaur got the land mutated by her own free will and Mukhtiar Kaur had no dispute about it.
In his statement section 313 of the Cr.
Blackening or charring is possible when a shot is fired from a distance of about 2 feet to 3 feet.
During the trial Jora Singh PW1, Satnam Singh PW2, Gurdeep Singh PW3 and Kulwant Singh PW4 resiled from their statements given to the police and were declared hostile.
12.  We have considered their arguments very carefully.
Appeal dismissed.
There could perhaps be some truth in this suggestion, as it is significant that though the appellant had an extended family living with him i.e. mother, wife, son living (in the village) and two young daughters who were studying outside and residing in a hostel, but were frequent visitors home, yet none of them has come forth to depose in his favour.
We, therefore, find that Ujjagar Singh's conviction section 376 of the IPC cannot be sustained.
" 14.  Mr. Goburdhan has also cited Mahmood v. State of U.P. (1976) 1 SCC 542 1975 Indlaw SC 643, Shankarlal Gyarasilal Dixit v. State of Maharashtra (1981) 2 SCC 35 1980 Indlaw SC 47, Sharad Birdhichand Sarda v. State of Maharashtra (1984) 4 SCC 116 1984 Indlaw SC 432, Omwati (Smt) and Ors.
15.  A few facts stand out from the prosecution story.
16.  Mr. Goburdhan has, however, laid great emphasis on the fact that no reference to the gun or cartridges had been made in the inquest report and that in any case the weapon and the spent cartridges had been sent to the laboratory belatedly.
For example, with firearm, temple,forehead,mouth and chest are the favourite sites.
In this background the death sentence is not called for.
I regained consciousness in hospital.
Homicidal shooting by dacoits is not uncommon in India, and they are known to make their own firearms.
Reliance for this argument has been placed on the decision of Raj Kumar Prasad Tamarkar v. State of Bihar & Anr.
We are however of the opinion, as already noted above, that a case of rape has not been made out.
There was no other person.
The learned State counsel has, however, relied on the statement of PW16 Dr. Sanjay Uppal, who was apparently the first doctor to have examined the appellant, wherein he clearly testified that the blackened portion around the firearm injury had been removed by him.
We find from the medical evidence and from the chemical examiner's reports that the vaginal swab and clothes taken from the dead body did indicate the presence of semen.
Sometimes, firearm wounds may look like knife slashes or a bullet hole may resemble a penetrating stab wound, if the bullet strikes the head of shoulder at an angle or when an unstable bullet registers a broadside hit.
There is not only a grammatical but a legal distinction between 'may be proved' and "must be or should be proved" as was held by this Court in Shivaji Sahabrao Bobade v. State of Maharashtra 1973 Indlaw SC 181 where the following observations were made :  Certainly, it is a primary principle that the accused must be and not merely may be guilty before a court can convict and the mental distance between 'may be' is long and divides vague conjectures from sure conclusions.
The prosecution also placed reliance on the statement of ASI Jasbir Singh PW11 who had accompanied Inspector Harjinder Pal Singh PW14 to the place of incident and supported the recoveries made from the spot.
Hesitation injuries are also observed in some suicide cases.
False allegations have been levelled against me.
The fact that the terrace and the bedroom are adjoining each other is not in dispute.
It is also significant that the investigators had made no attempt whatsoever to have the appellant medically examined to ascertain his capacity to perform sexual intercourse.
The cause of death of the deceased Usha Devi i.e. by a gun shot injury is not disputed.
The weapon and the recovered cartridge cases had also been sent to the Forensic Science Laboratory which in its report dated 4.8.2004 opined that the crime cartridge case CI 'could' have been fired by the right barrel of the weapon whereas the crime cartridge case C2 'had been' fired from the right barrel.
My house (kothi) is situated on the outer skirts of village Bangawali and door (planks) had not been fixed so far to rooms.
Balwinder Singh her husband was addicted to vices and used to beat her due to which she used to remain under depression and sick generally, and used to come to me as my daughter.
Gopal Singh was cross-examined by the prosecution and but for some inconsequential questions put to him with regard to the seals, not even a suggestion was made that the aforesaid articles had in any way been tampered with.
Some body suddenly came and fired at me.
To our mind, therefore, this is yet another circumstance inculpating the accused.
I fell down on the ground and became unconscious.
He has in this connection referred us to the statement of Dr. Ripan Miglani PW15 and the wound found on the appellant at the time of his medical examination in the Department of Surgery of the Dayanand Medical College & Hospital, Ludhiana which was "About 15 x 8 cm curvilinear wound present on the left half of face extending upto bone.
Sometimes, the firing is done by pulling a string tied to the trigger by the big toe.
20.  The learned State counsel has emphasized that in the light of the admitted position that the accused and the deceased were the only ones present at the time of incident and that the accused had projected a counter story, some credible explanation was also expected from him.
Underlying muscles were exposed and contamination was present.
2007(1) SCALE 19 2007 Indlaw SC 5.
No blackening or foreign body was visible.
V. State of A.P. (2006) 10 SCC 172 2006 Indlaw SC 144 in support of his plea relating to the evaluation of circumstantial evidence.
We are therefore of the opinion that this statement falsifies Mr. Goburdhan's argument on this aspect.
P.C. In reply to question 33 he stated as under: "I am innocent.
He failed to discharge the same.
(1998) 9 SCC 81 1997 Indlaw SC 1403, Sudama Pandey & Ors.
P.A. sent it to Police Station, Dhuri where the formal FIR was registered at about 4.45 p.m. with the special report being delivered to the Illaka Magistrate at Dhuri itself at 6.20 p.m. the same evening.
PW10 Karam Singh aforesaid confirmed the story given by Balwinder Singh.
These judgments have broadly followed the principles laid down in the judgments referred to above and need not therefore be dealt with us in extenso.
V. Mahendra Singh & Ors.
It has also been submitted that in a case of attempted suicide a firearm must of necessity be used from a very close range and the absence of any blackening, charring or burning around the wound on Ujjagar Singh clearly ruled out the possibility of such an attempt.
PJJ wherein marks of a shot hitting the roof were seen at point E whereas the appellant was found lying at point D in the same room.
In addition, he was convicted for an offence punishable section 376 of the IPC and sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment for 10 years and to a fine of Rs.5, 000/- and in default of payment to undergo further R.I. for one year and section 309 of the IPC to a sentence of simple imprisonment for one year.
It must be emphasized that but for this self serving statement made by the appellant, there is nothing on record to support his positive stance.
The onus was on him.
It goes a long way to show that the same must have been done by a person who wanted to kill the deceased from a short distance.
In such cases the hand used to steady the weapon at the muzzle may be blackened and scorched and may also be stained with squirting of the blood from the injured arteries.
It must nonetheless be emphasized that whether a chain is complete or not would depend on the facts of each case emanating from the evidence and no universal yardstick should ever be attempted.
