When without mentioning the particular article the learned Single Judge decided on merits the application, in order to decide the question of maintainability of an appeal, against such a judgment, the Division Bench might examine the relief granted by the learned Single Judge, for maintainability of an appeal, the determination would be the main and not the ancillary relief.
In the last mentioned case which dealt with the nature of a writ of quo warranto, the Judicial Committee held: "In Their Lordships' opinion any original civil jurisdiction possessed by the High Court and not in express terms conferred by the Letters Patent or later enactments falls within the description of ordinary original civil jurisdiction." 8.  By article 226 the power of issuing prerogative writs possessed by the Chartered High Courts prior to the commencement of the Constitution has been made wider and more extensive and conferred upon every High Court.
As noted above the prayer in the Writ Petition was to set aside the decision of the assessing officer.
But the said observation of the learned Single Judge did not necessarily mean that the learned Judge was not inclined to interfere article 227 of the Constitution of India only.
In a proceeding under that article the person, authority or State against whom the direction, order or writ is sought is a necessary party.
Rule 18 of the Bombay High Court Appellate Side Rules read with cl. 15 of the Letters Patent provides for appeal to the Division Bench of the High Court from a judgment of the learned Single Judge passed on a writ petition article 226 of the Constitution.
The normal remedy is to file a Letters Patent Appeal.
Madon, J., speaking for the Court  made the following pertinent observations: "Petitions are at times filed both articles 226 and 227 of the Constitution.
As seen earlier, he was considering the aforesaid writ petition moved article 226 as well as article 227 of the Constitution of India.
Provided that no such appeal shall lie against an interlocutory order or against an order passed in exercise of supervisory jurisdiction article 227 of the Constitution of India.
It is also necessary to note that the appellant being the respondent in letters patent appeal joined issues on merits and did not take up the contention that the letters patent appeal was not maintainable.
It is the nature of the relief sought for and the controversy involved which determines the Article which is applicable.
It is equally true that the learned Single Judge dismissed the writ petition by observing that the courts below had appreciated the contentions and rejected the complaint.
Rule 4, however, gives power to a Single Judge to issue rule nisi on an application article 226 but precludes him from passing any final order on such application.
Secondly, in a writ of certiorari, the record of the proceedings having been certified and sent up by the inferior court or tribunal to the High Court, the High Court if inclined to exercise its jurisdiction, may simply annul or quash the proceedings and then do no more.
2.  Challenge in this appeal is to the judgment of a Division Bench of the Madhya Pradesh High Court dismissing the writ appeal filed by the appellant on the ground that it was not maintainable.
Once such a jurisdiction was invoked and when his writ petition was dismissed on merits, it cannot be said that the learned Single Judge had exercised his jurisdiction only article 226  of the Constitution of India.
" 12.  In Lokmat Newspapers (P) Ltd. v. Shankarprasad [1999 (6) SCC 275 1999 Indlaw SC 587] it was observed as follows: "It is, therefore, obvious that the writ petition invoking jurisdiction of the High Court both articles 226 and 227 of the Constitution had tried to make out a case for the High Court's interference seeking issuance of an appropriate writ of certiorari article 226 of the Constitution of India.
Point 1 is, therefore, answered in the affirmative against the appellant and in favour of the respondent.
In quintessentiality, it cannot be put in a state jacket formula that any order of the learned judge that deals with an order arising from an inferior tribunal or the sub ordinate court is an order article 227 of the Constitution of India and not an order article 226 of the Constitution.
It was held that the order was passed in exercise of power of superintendence article 227 of the Constitution of India, 1950 (in short the 'Constitution') against which the Letters Patent Appeal is not maintainable.
Under Article 227, however, what comes up before the High Court is the order or judgment of a subordinate court or tribunal for the purpose of ascertaining whether in giving such judgment or order that subordinate court or tribunal has acted within its authority and according to law.
