The same has been made clear in paragraph No. 23, but it appears that the words "to each employee" after the figure "Rs. 150/-" were omitted.
28.  Thereafter the Tribunal made an order on the same day in the following terms: "There can be no doubt that a flat increase of Rs. 150/- to each of the employees in the category of Draftsmen and of Rs. 100/- to each employee in the other categories has been granted under my award.
The dearness allowance, it was claimed, should be granted on a slab system.
The Tribunal also noted that after the salaries of the employees had been fixed in the respective scales, senior employees would have to be given some more increments in the new scales according to their completed years of service.
This in our opinion is elementary and fundamental to the jurisdiction of the Industrial Tribunal in revising wage-scales.
However, we do not agree with our learned brother that Civil Appeal No. 2299 of 1979 should be allowed in so far as it relates to the order dated December 22, 1978 of the Industrial Tribunal which purports to correct the award dated December 20, 1978.
House rent allowance was also paid.
7.  The revised wage scales, the Tribunal directed, should take effect retrospectively from 1st January, 1976.
On December 22, 1978 that is to say, two days after the Award was made and when everything must have been fresh to the minds of the Tribunal, the respective parties and their Advocates, the employees Union made an application under Rule 31 of the Industrial Disputes (Bombay) Rules, 1957 seeking a correction of an error, which it was claimed, had crept into the Award.
12.  Considering the appeal of Tata Consulting Engineers first, the contention of learned counsel for the appellant is that having regard to the financial capacity of the appellant the Tribunal erred in making the wage scales retrospective and, in any event, in ranging the retrospectivity back to 1st January, 1976.
In proceeding to revise the wage structure the Tribunal took into account the two principles involved in the process, the financial capacity of the industry to bear the burden of an increased wage bill, and the prevailing wage structure on an industry- cum-region basis.
11.  The workmen have filed an appeal by special leave, Civil Appeal No. 2300 of 1979, in which they have challenged the rejection by the Tribunal of their claim in respect of dearness allowance which, they contend, should be pegged to the cost of living index and should not be a fixed amount.
There was only one increase contemplated in the award, in paragraph 23 of award, and it is more than plain that the increase was the one incorporated in the revised pay scales pertaining to different categories.
The sufficiency of the existing pay scales was considered in detail, and regard was had to their original structure and the accretions made subsequently by way of dearness allowance and house rent allowance.
Even when considering the range of permissible retrospectivity the Tribunal stated in the award: "In view of the revision of the wage scales, there would be consequent increase in the dearness allowance and the house rent allowance.
It is only a clerical mistake or error which can be corrected, and the clerical mistake or error must arise from an accidental slip or omission in the award.
21.  It seems that the Tribunal was betrayed by a curious confusion in accepting the plea of the Union that a flat increase to the pay of each workman was intended in the original wage and, consequently, it fell into the error of amending the award.
It was clearly so intended by the Tribunal as is evident from the reference to "flat increase of Rs. 150/- in the category of Draftsmen and Rs. 100/- in the case of the other categories".
Revising the figures on that basis, it computed the annual gross profits for the years 1968 to 1977 and determined the annual average at Rs. 26.69 lakhs.
20.  In its order of 22nd December, 1978, the Tribunal has referred to the statement (Exhibit C-51) filed by the appellant when called upon to indicate the increased financial burden apprehended by it.
Finally at the end of paragraph 21 the Tribunal said : In view of this position, the Company can easily bear some burden that might fall as a result of the upward revision of the wage- scales.
As it has now turned out what the employees apparently suspected the employer might contend, is precisely what the employer is not contending, though the employer did not choose to so contend before the Industrial Tribunal itself when the employees filed the application for rectification.
4.  The appellant had introduced various pay scales in 1973 and some time later they were revised.
The question is to what extent the relief should be given to the employees ?" 32.  After expressing himself in categoric terms about the capacity of the company to bear the additional financial burden, the Tribunal went on to say: "I only propose to modify the existing structure of the scales with flat increases in each category".
Taking into account the circumstance that besides the staff of 306 workmen represented by the Union there were several other employees who would also have to be paid, the Tribunal considered it fair, in paragraph 23 of the award, to give a flat increase of Rs. 150/- in the category of Draughtsmen and Rs. 100/- in the case of other categories.
Holding it impossible in the circumstances to apply the principle of industry-cum-region basis, the Tribunal turned to a consideration of the financial capacity of the company to bear an additional burden in this connection, it proceeded on the footing that the appellant was a separate and independent division of Tata Sons Limited and had no "functional integrality" with the other divisions.
Nor can it be doubted that fitment into the revised pay scales is certainly a part of the revision of pay scales.
We have been taken through some of the material on the record in the attempt to support the contention, but after giving careful thought to the matter, I think there is ample justification for what the Tribunal did.
26.  It is needless to recapitulate all the basic facts which have been set out in the judgment of Pathak, J. The Award of the Industrial Tribunal was made on December 20, 1978.
30.  The primary and basic question considered by the Industrial Tribunal, in making the award dated December 20, 1978 was the question of revision of the wage-scales.
Wage scale statements were filed by the parties before the Tribunal pertaining to several engineering consultancy organisations but in the absence of pertinent information concerning the strength of their labour force, the extent of their business, the financial position for some years, the capital invested, the precise nature of the business, the position regarding reserves, dividends declared and future prospects of the company, the Tribunal found that it was unable to rely on them as comparable concerns.
While workmen raising industrial disputes for revision of wage-scales are certainly minded about their future prospects in the matter of wages, they, surely would be more concerned with the immediate benefits according to them That was why the Industrial Tribunal thought that an all round flat increase of Rs. 150/- in the case of Draftsmen and Rs. 100/- in the case of other workmen was called for.
" 10.  In this appeal, the learned counsel for the appellant had covered a wide field, but in the end he states that the appellant is aggrieved by two matters only.
Again in Paragraph 19 it was said: "I have no doubt that the present Company would be able to bear the additional burden for the years to come.
If, as the Tribunal has stated in the amendment order, the increase in paragraph 23 was intended to apply to each individual workmen, there is nothing in the body of the award to form the foundation on which the actual figures in the restructured pay scales can be made to rest.
It is to the task of revising the pay scales that the Tribunal addressed itself, and throughout the material part of the award it is that task which held its focussed attention.
Our attention has been drawn to what purports to be an endorsement by counsel for the appellant on the application dated 22nd December, 1978 filed by the Union before the Tribunal to the effect that the appellant would submit to whatever the Tribunal decided, and it is urged that the appellant is bound by the order made on the application.
Reliance was placed on The Hindustan Times Ltd., New Delhi v. Their Workmen [1964] 1 SCR 234 1962 Indlaw SC 436, 247 where it was observed by this Court that dearness allowance should not remain fixed at any figure but should be on a sliding scale in order to neutralise a portion of the increase in the cost of living.
While we find lot of force in the submission of Shri V. M. Tarkunde, learned counsel for the workmen that Dearness Allowance linked to cost of living index is ordinarily the best and the most scientific method of computing dearness allowance, it cannot always be said that an illegality warranting interference under Article 136 is committed if some other method is adopted.
But it rejected the demand of the Union for dearness allowance on the basis of a slab system, because that would have imposed an unacceptable burden on the appellant's financial capacity and there was no reason why the existing scheme of dearness allowance should be disturbed when a substantial increase was being made in the level of the basic wage.
Conspicuous by its absence is any reference to a flat increase in the pay of an individual workmen.
The Tribunal has referred to various considerations which prevailed with it in giving retrospectivity to the revised pay scales.
34.  Immediately after the award was pronounced, while the iron was still hot as it were, the employees apparently realised that the employer might take advantage of the circumstance that it was not clearly mentioned in the award that all the employees were to get additional pay of Rs. 150/- and Rs. 100/- respectively and might contend that the Tribunal had only revised the wage scales by increasing the salary on entry into the service and restructuring the scale of pay and never granted any ad hoc increase of salary to all employees.
And that is confirmed by what was stated in paragraph 23 of the award: "Considering this outgoing the flat increase of Rs. 150/- in the category of Draughtsman and Rs. 100/- in the case of the other categories would be fair." 18.  It will be noted that the pay scales of different categories were being restructured, and the flat increase envisaged there related to an increase in the general pay scales of different categories.
This liability taken with the liability accruing on the need to increase the salaries of the other staff determined the Tribunal's deliberations in regard to the several features of the award, including the grant of increments related to completed periods of service, the expansion of the span from 15 years to 20 years for earning increments, and other benefits.
