According to report Exbt.
If the accused was arrested at Behror there is no reason why the memo of arrest should not have been prepared at village Behror.
Appeals allowed
The clothes so recovered were sent to forensic science laboratory.
This piece of evidence was put to the accused during his statement under Section 313 Cr.
P/27 human semen was detected on underwear.
Offence was registered under Sections 302 and 376 IPC.
Slides of vaginal swab were prepared for cyto-chemical analysis for blood and seminal stains.
Hence, it could not have been held that the accused was absconding.
17.  Literal meaning of alibi is 'elsewhere'.
13.  Santosh, PW9, did not support the version of Kalu Ram and was declared hostile.
20.  The Trial Court and the High Court have proceeded on an assumption of availability of five pieces forging links in the chain of circumstantial evi-dence out of which we have found, as stated hereinabove, four of the alleged circumstances not to be pieces of incriminating circumstantial evidence at all.
Secondly, Harish Chand Sharma himself states that between 19.3.1991 and 25.3.1991 the ac-cused was called several times at the police station and on 21.3.1991 itself he was called twice in a day.
10.  Goma, to whose shop the three girls had gone to buy balloon, has not been examined.
from village Kotputli where the incident had taken place.
Thereafter the wit- nesses went to see movie in the cinema hall.
P.C., the appellant preferred an appeal putting in issue his conviction and sentence.
The third girl who was with S and Shalu has not been examined either in the Court or during investigation.
This Court held that the presence of blood-stain of 'B' group measuring 0.5 cm.
The two learned Judges, constituting the division bench, differed in their opinion.
In Shankarlal Gyarasilal Dixit's case 1980 Indlaw SC 47 (supra), this Court cautioned - "human nature is too willing, when faced with brutal crimes, to spin stories out of strong suspicions".
" 8.  In Dhananjoy Chatterjee's case 1994 Indlaw SC 1743 (supra), the decision of this Court in Sharad Birdhichand Sarda v. State of Maharashtra, [1984] 4 SCC 116 1984 Indlaw SC 432, was relied on.
He shall be set at liberty forthwith if not required to be detained in connection with any other offence.
A noose was also found around her neck.
He is acquitted of the charges framed against him.
The witness is a child witness of very tender age and examined in the Court almost a year after the date of the incident.
He did not remember and was therefore not in a position to tell how many number of times the accused Subhash was called for interrogation or making enquiries.
There was no injury on his private parts or on any other part of body.
He was a grown up male of 21 years and capable of performing sexual intercourse.
2.  Kumari S, a young child aged about 5 years, was last seen at about 4 p.m. on 18th March, 1991 and thereafter she did not return home.
It is not necessary here to extensively deal with the evidence adduced by the prosecution.
The accused appears to have been engaged as a causal (not regular) gate-keeper at 'Hira Moti'-a local talkies.
It was found that the victim was brutally ravished and thereafter killed.
S has died.
The accused may or may not avail the opportunity for offering his explanation.
Blood sam-ple of the accused was not collected and therefore not grouped.
(See Law Lexicon, P. Ramnath Iyer, Second Edition, P.87).
The inves-tigation commenced.
P/23 and in confirmation of the information led the police to a dry well wherefrom an underwear and baniyan wrapped in a newspaper dated 18.3.1991 were recovered.
On his arrest he was subjected to medical examination and found to be a potent and capable person.
P.C. and in reply he stated 'Galat Hai' (not correct).
14.  It appears that to begin with the death of S was a blind murder and the police was clue-less about the likely offender.
So also the discov-ery of 'B' group blood-stain on the underwear cannot be treated as an incrimi-nating piece of evidence against the accused connecting him with the crime because there is no evidence that the underwear belonged to the accused and further the possiblity of the underwear being stained with the blood of the person to whom it belonged, or the accused if he was wearing it has not been ruled out.
While the learned Additional Sessions Judge made a reference to the High Court for confirmation of death sentence under Section 366 Cr.
Such offences put to test the wits of an investigating officer.
The police appears to have embarked upon a search akin to a combing operation and in that process several suspected characters were called and interrogated.
P.C. is to afford the accused personally an opportunity of explaining any incriminating circumstance so appearing in evidence against him.
The accusation has to be proved to hilt in a court of law.
9.  It is this testimony which has been relied upon by the Trial Court as also by the High Court as the evidence of 'last seen together'.
The dead body was sent for post-mortem examination which was performed at 9.30 a.m., on the same day, by a medical board of three doctors.
21.  Before parting with the case we would like to place on record, an observation of ours, touching an aspect of the case.
3.  The accused was arrested on 3.4.1991 on suspicion.
The vaginal injuries, clotted blood and injuries to post-fornix were indica-tive of rape having been committed on the victim.
The ends, which the administration of cirminal justice serves, are not achieved merely by catching hold of the culprit.
4.  The accused was challaned and charge-sheeted for the offences as already stated hereinabove.
In law this term is used to express that defence in a criminal prosecution, where the party accused, in order to prove that he could not have committed the crime charged against him, offers evidence that he was in a different place at that time.
Though the offence is gruesome and revolts the human conscience but an accused can be convicted only on legal evidence and if only a chain of circumstantial evidence has been so forged as to rule out the possibility of any other reasonable hypothesis excepting the guilt of the accused.
Insofar as baniyan is concerned, it has no stains of any type on it and therefore its discovery and seizure is meaningless and irrelevant.
Placed in such situation if a villager, unaware of the law, happens to ask a person, who he feels knows the things better than what he himself does, as to what would be the period of incarceration to be suffered by any person for such an offence the impulse for inquiry may be outcome of a feeling of nervousness or mere inquisitiveness; such an enquiry is not necessarily suggestive of the working of a criminal mind.
This Court has held time and again that between may be true and must be true there is a long distance to travel which must be covered by clear, cogent and unimpeachable evidence by the prosecu-tion before an accused is condemned a convict.
18.  We are clearly of the opinion that the accused-appellant has not taken a plea of alibi and therefore the question of finding it false, and then drawing an inference adverse to him, does not arise at all.
While returning the accused told S that her feet were mudstained and he would wash her feet and saying so he took S inside his house, leaving behind the two girls, including Shalu PW7, who returned to their houses leaving S behind.
On asking a few questions by way of preliminary examination the learned Trial Judge found that the witness could 'answer some of the questions'.
Another circumstantial evidence relied on was that a stain of semen was found on the under-pant of the accused.
A vigilant investigating officer, well-versed with the techniques of the job, is in a position to collect the threads of evidence finding out the path which leads to the culprit.
The statement of Shahu was recorded during investigation on 25.3.1991, i.e. about six days after the date of incident.
There are clueless crimes committed.
This is necessary to exclude the likelihood of any innocent having been picked up and branded as culprit and then the gravity of the offence arousing human sympathy persuading the mind to be carried away by doubtful or dubious circumstances treating them as of 'beyond doubt' evidentiary value.
