Sub-s.
(iii) In judging a question of prejudice, as of guilt, the courts must act with a broad vision and look to the substance and not to the technicalities, and their main concern should be to see whether the accused had a fair trial, whether he knew what he was being tried for, whether the main facts sought to be established against him were explained to him fairly and clearly, and whether he was given a full and fair chance to defend himself.
3.  Prakashi Devi was examined as PW-1.
The Court may infer from this that A was misled, and that the error was material.
When charged for the murder of Haidar Baksh, he was tried for the murder of Khoda Baksh.
She reiterated what was recorded in the FIR, that the appellant came into the house around 11.30 PM and broke the bulbs, that he came again around 00.30 AM and touched her daughter-in-law (Sheela Devi) and when her daughter-in-law woke up and raised an alarm, the appellant ran away.
(1) of section 212 of the Code, that the charge shall contain particulars as to the person against whom the offence was committed.
Sessions Judge on 20.2.2002.
20.  The accused did not have any opportunity to meet or defend himself against the charge that he assaulted Sheela Devi and outraged her modesty.
23.
Appeal allowed.
16.
(7) Now here, as in all procedural laws, certain things are regarded as vital.
That order is challenged by the accused.
" 13.  The above principles are reiterated in several decisions of this Court, including State of West Bengal vs Laisal Haque - AIR 1989 SC 129 1988 Indlaw SC 706, State of A.P. vs Thakkidiram Reddy - 1998 (6) SCC 554 1998 Indlaw SC 1286, Dalbir Singh v. State of UP [2004 (5) SCC 334 2004 Indlaw SC 247], Dumpala Chandra Reddy vs Nimakayala Bali Reddy - 2008 (8) SCC 339 2008 Indlaw SC 1064 and Sanichar Sahni vs State of Bihar - 2009 (7) SCC 198 2009 Indlaw SC 736.
The special court framed a charge only for an offence section 376 IPC and after trial convicted the respondent section 376 IPC and sentenced him to ten years imprisonment.
" 22.
25.
19.
18.
" 12.
" 10.
8.
4.
" (Emphasis supplied) 2.
Leave granted.
One of the cardinal principles of natural justice is that no man should be condemned without being heard, (audi alteram partem).
She also admitted that the appellant did not touch her nor teased her nor abused her.
(2) of sec.
section 464 of the Code relates to effect of omission to frame, or absence of, or error in, charge.
These go to the foundations of natural justice and would be struck down as illegal forthwith.
Where an accused is charged with having committed offence against one person but on the evidence led, he is convicted for committing offence against another person, without a charge being framed in respect of it, the accused will be prejudiced, resulting in a failure of justice.
Others are not vital and whatever the irregularity they can be cured; and in that event the conviction must stand unless the Court is satisfied that there was prejudice.
But the law reports are replete with instances of courts hesitating to approve the contention that failure of justice had occasioned merely because a person was not heard on a particular aspect.
And I hereby direct that you be tried on the above said charge by this court.
15.  The respondent relied upon the decision of this court in State of Himachal Pradesh v. Geeta Ram [2000 (7) SCC 452 2000 Indlaw SC 408].
Illustration (e) section 215 of the Code, as contrasted from illustration (d) under that section, throws some light on this issue.
Disregard of a provision of that nature is fatal to the trial and at once invalidates the conviction.
The High Court set aside the conviction on the technical ground that the trial court had no jurisdiction as it was a special court specified in under the SC & ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act.
There is no such thing as a judicial precedent on facts though counsel, and even judges, are sometimes prone to argue and to act as if there were." 11.
Secondly on the same date, time and place, you assaulted and used criminal force against abovenamed Prakashi Devi with intent to outrage her modesty and thereby committed an offence punishable section 354 IPC and within my cognizance.
5.  The learned Magistrate by judgment dated 2.2.2001, held the accused guilty of offences sections 452 and 354 Cr.PC and sentenced him for rigorous imprisonment for six months and a fine of Rs.1,000/- in default thereof simple imprisonment for one month.
Nor did he proceed with his defence on the understanding that he was being charged with having committed the offence with reference to Sheela Devi.
Courts have to administer justice and justice includes the punishment of guilt just as much as the protection of innocence.
21.  The illustrations under a provision of a Statute offer relevant and valuable indications as to meaning and object of the provision and are helpful in the working and application of the provision.
(1) thereof provides that no finding, sentence or order of a court of competent jurisdiction shall be deemed invalid merely on the ground that no charge was framed or on the ground of any error, omission or irregularity in the charge including any misjoinder of charge, unless, in the opinion of the court of appeal, confirmation or revision, a failure of justice has in fact been occasioned thereby.
26.  The appeal is therefore allowed, the conviction of the accused is set aside and the matter is remitted to the trial court with a direction for a new trial after framing a charge by substituting the words "her daughter-in-law Sheela Devi" for the words "abovenamed Prakashi Devi", in the second part of the charge.
That, broadly speaking, is the basic principle on which the Code is based.
It hardly matters whether this is because prejudice is then patent or because it is so abhorrent to well-established notions of natural justice that a trial of that kind is only a mockery of a trial and not of the kind envisaged by the laws of our land because either way they would be struck down at once.
Every reasonable presumption must be made in favour of an accused person; he must be given the benefit of every reasonable doubt.
Some of these matters are dealt with by the Code and wherever that is the case full effect must be given to its provisions.
Other violations will not be so obvious and it may be possible to show that having regard to all that occurred no prejudice was occasioned or that there was no reasonable probability of prejudice.
Neither can be done if the shadow is mistaken for the substance and the goal is lost in a labyrinth of unsubstantial technicalities.
Such knowledge can be inferred from the defence, that is, if the defence of the accused showed that he was defending himself against the real and actual charge and not the erroneous charge.
