The High Court while passing the impugned order and judgment did not take into consideration that the accused-respondent has been convicted in another Criminal Case No. 202 of 1997 by the Court of Metropolitan Magistrate, Patiala House, New Delhi.
A person whose case is based on falsehood can be summarily thrown out at any stage of the litigation.
Convict remained for sentence.
11.  Learned senior counsel appearing for the appellant further submitted that there was no good reason for letting the respondent off by granting to him the said benefit of POB Act, particularly keeping in view the large scale irregularity and unauthorized constructions carried by the builders in Delhi despite strict direction of the Municipal authorities and courts passing various orders from time to time against the unauthorized constructions.
In the said case, the accused-respondent was convicted under Section 332/461 of the DMC Act and sentenced to six months simple imprisonment with a fine of Rs. 5000.
" 17.  Before proceeding further, it would be beneficial to reproduce Section 4 of the Probation of Offenders Act, 1958 which is extracted below for ready reference:- 18.  Power of court to release certain offenders on probation of good conduct:- "1.
If he withholds a vital document in order to gain advantage on the other side then he would be guilty of playing fraud on the court as well on the opposite party.
It is contended that he is first offender.
No. 185 of 2004 be set aside and appropriate orders be passed in this appeal.
Besides that he has already undergone some period in custody.
Leave granted.
" 25.  In the case of R. Mahalingam v. G. Padmavathi and Anr., (1979) Crl.
The High Court also failed to take into consideration that the respondent has been in jail for three days and had not put in substantial period in custody.
LJ NOC 20 Mad.
23.  We have already reproduced Section 4 of the POB Act.
Hence request declined.
2.
2.
Pet.
Rev.
Appeal allowed
Such exercise of discretion needs a sense of responsibility.
The said Court by an order and judgment dated 23.3.2004 dismissed the appeal by holding that there was no infirmity in the order passed by the trial Court (Annexure P-2).
He has faced trail since 1991.
We, however, part with this case with heavy heart expressing our strong disapproval of the conduct and behaviour but direct that the second respondent to pay a sum of Rs. 10,000 by way of cost to the appellant herein.
When any person is found guilty of having committed an offence not punishable with death or imprisonment for life and the court by which the person is found guilty is of opinion that, having record to the circumstances of the case including the nature of the offence and the character of the offender, it is expedient to release him on probation of good conduct, then, notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force, the court may, instead of sentencing him at once to any punishment direct that he be released on his entering into a bond, with or without sureties, to appear and receive sentence when called upon during such period, not exceeding three years, as the court may direct, and in the meantime to keep the peace and be of good behaviour: Provided that the court shall no direct such release of an offender unless it is satisfied that the offender or his surety, if any, has a fixed place of abode or regular occupation in the place over which the court exercises jurisdiction or in which the offender is likely to live during the period for which he enters into the bond.
He is not doing any business due to his bad health.
He is aged about 57 years.
Fine deposited.
The High Court vide its order impugned in this appeal has observed that there is no allegation that the respondent is a previous convict.
A litigant who approaches the Court is bound to produce all documents which are relevant to the litigation.
This plea cannot be entertained in this Court.
Before making any order under sub-section (1), the court shall take into consideration the report, if any, of the Probation Officer concerned in relation to the case.
It was also submitted that the requirement of calling of a report from the Probationer Officer under Section 4(2) of the POB Act has been waived off by the counsel for the State of Delhi and that the counsel for the MCD also did not raise any objection before the High Court.
2.  The brief facts leading to the filing of the above appeal are as under: 3.  One Mr. M.K. Verma (PW-4), Junior Engineer, Civil Line Zone, visited 189 Prem Gali, Punja Sharif, Mori Gate where he found unauthorized construction going at the first floor of the said plot.
The second respondent, in our opinion, was not justified in suppressing the material fact that he was convicted by the Magistrate on an earlier occasion.
We, therefore, have no hesitation in setting aside the order impugned and remit the matter to the High Court for fresh disposal strictly in accordance with law.
Since the second respondent deliberately suppressed the crucial and important fact, we disapprove strongly and particularly, the conduct of the second respondent and by reason of such conduct, the second respondent disentitled himself from getting any relief or assistance from this Court.
24.  In the case of Ram Singh and Ors.
9.  We have perused the entire pleadings, orders and judgments passed by the lower Courts and also of the High Court, the other annexures, in particular, annexures P-1 and P-2, and records annexed to this appeal and also heard the arguments of Mr. Ashwani Kumar, learned senior counsel appearing for the appellant, Mr. Vikas Sharma, learned counsel appearing for respondent No. 1 and Mr. Jaspal Singh, learned senior counsel, appearing for the second respondent.
Considering the above facts and circumstances, and gravity of the nature of the offence i.e. extent of construction raised by the accused for commercial as 11 shops at ground floor and 11 shops at first floor, I am not inclined to release the accused/convict on probation.
The appellant would have filed the orders passed by the criminal Courts convicting the respondent herein had an opportunity been given to the appellant.
F.I.R. was prepared on the report of Mr. M.K. Verma who forwarded the F.I.R. before Zonal Engineer, who ordered to issue notice under Section 343/344 of the Delhi Municipal Corporation Act, 1957 (for short the "DMC Act").
7.  The High Court vide its order dated 26.3.2004 held that the accused suffered the agony of trial lasting for 12 years.
Therefore, learned senior counsel appearing for the appellant, prayed that order dated 26.3.2004 in Crl.
But if for one reason or the other such a report is not forthcoming, the Court has to decide the matter on other materials available to it.
5.  Aggrieved by that order, the second respondent-accused filed an appeal before the Sessions Court, Delhi.
It was, therefore, submitted that the sentence/imprisonment awarded by the Metropolitan Magistrate has been suspended under Section 389 of the Criminal Procedure Code by the Court of Additional Sessions Judge, Delhi in view of the pendency of the appeal against the order of conviction is a continuation of proceedings and therefore, there is no conviction against the answering respondent so long as the same is not decided by the Court of Sessions.
