The Designated Court therefore, rightly found the said appellants guilty of the offences under Section 302/149, 307/149 and Section 324/149 IPC.
Public Prosecutor.
(3) Verticle incised wound 5 x 1 x 1 cms.
During the investigation, an identification parade was got conducted through the Executive Magistrate, PW-32 when Baban Karpe (PW-9) and other prosecution witnesses identified the assailants.
above right ear, fracture of right parietal bone with laceration of brain.
At about 4.00 p.m., the appellants and other accused persons allegedly armed with swords, satturs and sticks arrived there in two auto-rickshaws and one jeep.
Section 19 (1) and (2) of TADA read as follows : "19.
It was also taken into possession vide a panchnama.
There is nothing on the record to disclose as to which community do the appellants belong to or what grievance they had against the "Wadar Community".
(2) Multiple abraded contusion all over the back.
His testimony receives ample corroboration from the testimony of PW10, PW11, PW14 and PW15 Waman, the proprietor of Jagdamba Hotel besides the medical evidence.
(2) Except as aforesaid, no appeal or revision shall lie to any court from any judgment, sentence or order including an interlocutory order of a Designated Court.
P.C. was one of total denial and false implication.
A-10 also made a disclosure statement under Section 27 of the Evidence Act to the effect that he had buried a sword behind Yamai Tukai temple and could get it recovered.
The accused A-6, A-10 and A-11 alongwith one other person were also present at the video parlour.
The last three witnesses, however, turned hostile at the trial and were cross-examined by the Addl.
In Hitendra Vishnu Thakur And Others Vs.
From our independent examination of the material on the record, we are satisfied that the prosecution has been able to establish its case against A-5, A-8, A-9 and A-11 and the deceased A-1 beyond a reasonable doubt.
Injury was bleeding fresh.
Samples of blood of the accused were collected for ascertaining their blood groups and sent for chemical analysis.
on posterior of left knee in popliteal.
15.
Appellants A-5, A-10 and A-11 thereafter assaulted Bajrang Band Patte (PW-14) on his head in front of the hotel.
He ran away to conceal himself.
" 22.
While receiving the treatment, Popat succumbed to his injuries.
12.
Baloba (A-1) died during the pendency of the trial and therefore, the proceedings against him abated.
From the post-mortem report prepared by Dr. A.P. Khiste (PW-22), we find that the deceased had four incised injuries which had caused extensive damage to his internal organs also.
18.
The amplitude of powers available to this Court under Article 142 of the Constitution of India is normally speaking not conditioned by any statutory provision but it cannot be lost sight of that this Court exercises jurisdiction under Article 142 of the Constitution with a view to do justice between the parties but not in disregard of the relevant statutory provisions.
13.
23.
21.
20.
17.
16.
9.
8.
7.
6.
5.
4.
3.
2.
1.
Edges were clean out.
So far as the first incident is concerned, that merely provided the motive for the assault near the Jagdamba hotel and the Math.
They were subsequently arrested on different dates.
We agree.
There is no basis for such an assumption.
All the injured persons were admitted to the hospital.
The accused were searched for but could not be traced.
On receipt of information, Asstt.
11.
A-9 also put forward a similar defence, while A-10 alleged that the police had instituted a false case against him at the instance of Narayan Dhotare, according to A-11, also the witnesses had deposed falsely against him at the instance of Narayan Dhotare.
The plea of the remaining accused in their statements under Section 313 Cr.
PW-10, PW-11 and PW-15 have tried to implicate A-10 by making tell tale improvements in their statements at the trial by ascribing a role to him in the assault by improving upon their statements earlier recorded during the investigation, with which statements they were duly confronted.
He shall be released from custody forthwith if not required in any other case.
14.
10.
The conviction and sentence of appellants No.1 (A-5), 2 (A-8), 3 (A-9) and 5 (A-11) for the said offences, as recorded by the learned Designated Court, are well merited, and calls for no interference.
The substantive sentences of imprisonment were however directed to run concurrently.
P.C., as the series of acts in both the cases were so inter-connected as to form one transaction.
Prosecution has led no evidence in that behalf either.
The Designated Court after considering the evidence of the first incident and the manner of assault on the deceased and PW-9 and PW-14, came to the conclusion that the appellants, alongwith some others had intended to create terror in a section of the people (Wadar community) and with that intention had assaulted PW-14, the deceased and PW9 by lethal weapons and were therefore guilty of committing an offence under Section 3 TADA.
An auto-rickshaw bearing registration No. MWQ-5624 belonging to Manik Bhende-Gavali was found abandoned in a damaged condition with broken glasses.
These are thus the stamped witnesses whose presence admits of no doubt and being themselves the victims they would not leave out the real assailants and substitute them with innocent persons.
The submission of the learned counsel is, thus, devoid of merits and is consequently rejected.
In default of payment of fine on each of the counts, the appellants were to undergo further RI for two years each.
In the result, the appeal succeeds insofar as A-10 (appellant No. 4) is concerned.
PW 22 opined that these injuries, individually as well as collectively, were sufficient in the ordinary course of nature to cause death.
PW-14 Bajrang was also medically examined and the following injuries were found on him :- (1) Transverse Lacerated would on occipital region, 3 x 1 cm., bone deep.
Some of the other witnesses including Popat deceased and Baban PW-9 fled towards the Math to save themselves.
Despite searching cross-examination, nothing has been brought out in their cross-examination from which any doubt may arise about the participation of A-1, A- 5, A-8, A-9 and A-11 in the assault or discredit the testimony of any of these witnesses.
These witnesses knew the accused from before by their names and had also identified them later when called upon to do so.
He is given the benefit of doubt and acquitted of all the charges against him.
After completion of the investigation, two charge-sheets arising out of crime No.101/90 and crime No.102/90 were filed before the Designated Court.
There was an altercation between the accused and the complainant party when the leg of Kaka Dombe (A-11) dashed against the leg of Anna Shety Band Patte PW.
It was not proper for the Designated Court to draw an inference of intention from the mere consequence, i.e., the victims belonging to the particular community.
Their evidence establishes the manner in which the assault originated as well as the role played by each one of them.
The appellants, however, were convicted and sentenced in the manner as already noticed.
In the face of this express provision, there is no scope to urge that the appeal may be transferred to the High Court because of the acquittal of the appellants for the offence punishable under Section 3 TADA by us.
Public Prosecutor through an application, exhibit P-35, requested the Court for holding trial in respect of both the chargesheets together, which application was allowed by the Designated Court vide order dated 5 December 1992 and that is how both the cases were tried together by virtue of the provisions of Section 220 (1) Cr.
According to PW-22, the internal injuries on the deceased were a result of the following external injuries: (1) Incised wound, transverse on left groin at centre medial to left public symphysis and left superior iliac crest, all muscles, vessels cut, both femoral vessels, vein artery cut, dimension 4 x 2 x 5 cms.
Bajrang PW-14 regained consciousness during the night intervening 11th and 12th August, 1990 and made a statement to the police in respect of the incident which took place in front of Jagdamba hotel and on the basis of that statement, CR No.102/90 was registered.
For the sake of convenience the accused shall be referred to hereinafter by the number assigned to them in the Trial Court judgment as accused i.e. (A-5, A-8, A-10 etc.).
Out of the remaining witnesses mentioned above, PW-9 and PW-14 are the injured witnesses.
On the arrival of accused party Anna Shetty ran away.
Even from the evidence of the hostile witness PW-19 Mohanlal, it emerges that on the day of the incident there was an altercation at the video parlour, though he has given the cause of the altercation to be somewhat different, which explanation does not appeal to us.
One sword, stained with blood and two blood stained sticks were recovered from the said jeep.
So far as other accused are concerned, none of the prosecution witnesses ascribed any role to A-2, A-3 and A-12 and even though PW-15 deposed at the trial about the presence of A-4, A-6 and A-7 and stated that they were present with the accused party but the trial court, for good and sufficient reasons found that his testimony as regards their presence in the unlawful assembly, had not received trustworthy corroboration from any other prosecution evidence.
The evidence regarding the first incident was given by PW10, PW11 and PW12.
However, so far as A-10 is concerned, we find that there is merit in the submissions of the learned counsel for the appellant that his identify and participation in the assault has not been established beyond a reasonable doubt.
