We do not agree with the submission.
(2) of Paragraph 3 provides that while so fixing the price of a bulk drug, the Government may take into account the average cost of production of such bulk drug manufactured by an efficient manufacturer and allow a reasonable return on net worth.
A provision for 'such enquiry' as it thinks fit' by a subordinate legislating body, we have explained earlier, is generally an enabling provision to facilitate the subordinate legislating body to obtain relevant information from any source and it is not intended to vest any right in any body other than the subordinate legislating body.
Beg, CJ.
" 28.  The Drugs (prices Control) Order, 1979 was made pursuant to this Statement of Policy.
This Court is not a tribunal for relief from the crudities and inequities of complicated experimental economic legislation ".
Administrative, quasi-judicial decisions tend to merge in legislative activity and, conversely, legislative activity tends to fade into and present an appearance of an administrative or quasi-judicial activity.
In particular, section 3(2)(c) enables the Central Government, to make an order providing for controlling the price at which any essential commodity may be bought or sold.
Formulations constituting categories I, II and III are enumerated in the Third Schedule.
In Maneka Gandhi's case where Bhagwati, J. while expounding on natural justice pointed out that in appropriate cases where a pre-decisional hearing was impossible, there must atleast be a post-decisional hearing so as to meet the requirement of the rule audi alteram partem.
"P.M." means the cost of packing material including process loss thereon worked out in accordance with such norms as may be specified by the Government from time to time by notifi- cation in the official Gazette in this behalf. "P.C." means packing charges worked out in accordance with such norms as may be specified by the Government from time to time by notification in the official Gazette in this behalf.
to be furnished.
That is its purpose and end.
Later when it was realized that separate appeals were necessary, the Union of India filed petitions for special leave to appeal against the other manufacturers also.
Those who are most vitally affected are the consumer public.
On balance, the Hathi Committee was of the view that this particular variant selectivity may be administratively simpler.
"Free reserve" itself is separately defined.
" 12.  The cases of Panipat Sugar Mills and Anakapalle Co-operative Agricultural Society were distinguished on the ground that they were governed by sub-section (3C) of sec.
One of the principal objectives of the Essential Commodities Act, 1955 is precisely that.
The notes is as follows:- "Notes:-(i) Items of expenses to be excluded from costs-- a) Bonus in excess of statutory minimum.
(c) Donations and charities.
According to Chief Justice Burger, "Rulemaking is normally directed toward the formulation of requirements having a general application to all members of a broadly identifiable class.
He also reaffirmed the proposition that price fixation was in the nature of a legislative measure and could not give rise to a complaint that natural justice was not observed.
It is an order for a compulsory sale.
The formula is: "R.P. = (M.C.+C.C.+P.M.+P.C.) x (1+MU)+ E.D. 100 "R.P." means retail price.
The producer must have an incentive to produce.
Two important features have weighed with us in condoning the delay.
" An adjudication, on the other hand, applies to specific individuals or situations.
The Government, however, fixed the price at Rs.1,810 per Kg.
(b) Bad debts and provisions.
(e) Brokerage and commission.
That we think is the nature and scope of the review contemplated by Paragraph 27 in relation to orders made under Paragraphs 3, 12 and 13.
47.  On the question of the scope of a Review, the learned counsel for the respondents invited our attention to Vrajlal Manilal & Co. v. Union of India & Anr., [1964] 7 SCR 97 1964 Indlaw SC 194; Shivaji Nathubhai v. Union of India & Ors., [1960] 2 SCR 775 1960 Indlaw SC 430; Maneka Gandhi, [1978] 2 SCR 621 1978 Indlaw SC 212; Swadeshi Cotton Mills, [1981] 2 SCR 533 1981 Indlaw SC 349; and Liberty Oil Mills., [1984] 3 SCR 676 1984 Indlaw SC 326.
The petitioners, through their counsel further given an undertaking that in this court the petitioners would not contend or challenge the said amount if deposited, is not liable to be deposited under any law whatsoever.
Again, adjudication determines past and present facts and declares rights and liabilities while legislation indicates the future course of action.
He may seek any other relevant information which the Government shall not unreasonably deny.
Cl.
11.
15.
(g) Adjustments relating to previous years.
2.  Profiteering, by itself, is evil.
Nevertheless, the criterion adopted must be reasonable.
Similarly where expenses have been legitimately incurred and allowed by Income-tax authorities, there was no justification for excluding those items of expenditure from the cost.
But it does not follow that the notification fixing the maximum price must necessarily be struck down as obsolete by the mere passage of time.
The former had said, "There is no doubt that a minister, or any other body, in making legislation, for example, by statutory instrument or by law, is not subject to the rules of natural justice--Bates v. Lord Hailsham of St. Marylebone (supra)--any more than is Parliament itself; Edinburgh and Dalkeith Rv.
But our examination will stop there.
It is a direction of a general character, not directed against a particular situation.
Their interests have in no way been taken care of.
We do not propose to delve into the question whether there has been any such arbitrary assumption of facts and figures.
" 37.  It is provided that the amount credited to the Drugs Prices Equalization Account shall be spent for paying to the manufacturer, "the shortfall between his retention price and the common selling price or as the case may be, the pooled price." 38.
It is meant to provide a fillip to individual manufacturers of bulk drugs whose production it is necessary to increase.
This is so even though the quota thus fixed may demonstrably be disadvantageous to certain areas or persons.
60.  On the conclusions arrived at by us we have no doubt that the appeal must be allowed and the writ petition in the High Court dismissed.
So, information may be gathered from whatever source considered desirable by the Government.
Its validity does not depend on the observance of any procedure to be complied with or particular types of evidence to be taken on any specified matters as conditions precedent to its validity.
The Court will, of course, examine if there is any hostile discrimination.
62.
50.
46.
42.
26.
21.
8.
The other is that it is a 'matter of serious concern to the public interest.
This was apparently done under some misapprehension that it would be enough if a single appeal was filed.
The review petitions could not survive after the notifications sought to be reviewed had themselves been quashed.
What the order does contemplate however is 'such enquiry' by the Government 'as it thinks fit'.
The Court quoted with approval a passage from Secretary of Agriculture v. Central Reig Refining Company, 330 US 604, stating: "Suffice it to say that since Congress fixed the quotas on a historical basis it is not for this Court to reweigh the relevant factors and, per chance, substitute its notion of expediency and fairness for that of Congress.
The argument, for example, was that there should be a more scientific formula in regard to conversion cost and not, as was done, so many rupees and paise per thousand capsules or one litre of liquid.
The right here given to rate payers or others is in the nature of a concession which is not to detract from the character of the activity as legislative and not quasijudicial.
It was submitted that there were errors in totalling, errors in the calculation of prices of utilities, errors in the calculation of net-worth and many other similar errors.
Reasonableness, for purposes of judging whether there was an "excess of power" or an "arbitrary" exercise of it, is really the demonstration of a reasonable nexus between the matters which are taken into account in exercising a power and the purposes of exercise of that power.
We, therefore, confirm till further orders the interim order made by us on April 20, 1981.
"E.D." means excise duty." 35.  Paragraph 11 explains what 'Mark-up' means.
52.  One of the submissions of Shri Diwan was that in calculating "net-worth" the cost of new works in progress and the amount invested outside the business were excluded from 'free reserves' and that such exclusion could not be justified on any known principle of accountancy.
It may also be questioned on any ground on which a subordinate legislation may be questioned, such as, being contrary to constitutional or other statutory provisions.
The cases to which we shall now refer, will perhaps elucidate what we have tried, unfelicitously, to express.
who delivered a separate opinion for himself and for Desai, J. agreed that the judgment in Premier Automobiles was not to provide a precedent in price fixation case.
It is meant to lay down a general rule applicable to all persons or objects or transactions of a particular kind or class.
Though difficult, it is necessary that the line must sometimes be drawn as different legal fights and consequences may ensue.
It is a menance which had to be lettered and curbed.
Reference was made to the Hathi Committee report which had recommended a return of 12 to 14% post tax return on equity, that is, paid up capital plus reserves and the 'Statement on Drug Policy' which mentioned that ceiling prices may be determined by taking into account production costs and a reasonable return.
Paragraph 6 enables the Government to fix the maximum sale price of imported bulk.drugs specified in First and Second Schedules.
All that the Government may do is to dispose of the review application with the utmost expedition.
He said: "If a particular function is termed "legislative" or "rulemaking" rather than "judicial" or "adjudication," it may have substantial effects upon the parties concerned.
22.  We may refer at this juncture to some illuminating passages from Schwrtz's book on 'Administrative Law'.
That is a different 'cup of tea' altogether.
For example, the manufacturer may require the Government to give information regarding the particulars detailed in Form No. 1 of the Fourth Schedule which have been taken into account and those which have been excluded.
section 3(1) of the Essential Commodities Act enables the Central Government, if it is of opinion 'that it is necessary or expedient so to do for maintaining or increasing supplies of any essential commodity or for securing their equitable distribution and availability at fair price', to 'provide for regulating or prohibiting by order, the production, supply and distribution thereof and trade and commerce therein'.
19.  In Tharoe Mal v. Puranchand, [1978] 1 SCC 102 1977 Indlaw SC 122 one of the questions was regarding the nature of the hearing to be given before imposing municipal taxes under the Uttar Pradesh Municipalities Act, 1916.
It was suggested that the delay in disposing of the review applications had the effect of rendering the original notifications fixing the prices unreal and out of date and liable to be struck down on that ground alone.
In the case before us, the Control Order applies to sales of mustard oil anywhere in India by any dealer.
(d) Loss/Gain on sale of assets.
As we pointed out earlier, these are all matters which should legitimately be raised in the review application, if there is any substance in them.
But whatever procedure is adopted, it must be a procedure tuned to the situation.
There is no justification that the producer should be given the benefit of price increase attributable to hoarding or cornering or artificial short supply.
But, this is only a bread distinction, not necessarily always true.
in Prag Ice and Oil Mills were quoted with approval in connection with the fixation of prices of food stuffs served in restaurants.
5.  The second observation we wish to make is, legislative action, plenary or subordinate, is not subject to rules of natural justice.
1.  It was just the other day that our brothers Ranganath Misra and M.M. Dutt, JJ. had to give directions in a case (Vincent Panikurbangara v. Union of India) where a public spirited litigant had complained about the unscrupulous exploitation of the Indian Drug and Pharmaceutical Market by multinational Corporations by putting in circulation low-quality and even deleterious drugs.
In the case of Parliamentary legislation, the proposition is self-evident.
The fair price must be fair not only from the point of view of the consumer but also from the point of view of the producer.
The decision rendered without disclosing the report of the State Government and without affording reasonable opportunity to the appellants to present their case was contrary to natural justice was therefore, void.
The Order requiring him to sell the sugar to the Government was made under section 3(2)(f) of the Essential Commodities Act under which the Central Government was enabled to make an order requiring any person engaged in the production of any essential commodity to sell the whole or specified part of the quantity produced by him to the Government or its nominee.
Order accordingly.
If a hearing is held in accordance with a statutory requirement, it normally need not be a formal one, governed by the requirements discussed in Chapters 6 and 7.
We will go no further.
Paragraph 15 empowers the Government to revise prices of formulations.
There is no question before us that paragraph 3 prescribes any arbitrary guideline.
These applications are strenuously opposed by the manufacturers who contend the ordinary rule which is enforced in cases of delay namely that everyday's delay must be properly explained should also be rigorously enforced against the Government.
This information obtained from the various manufacturers was taken into account and a report was then obtained from the Bureau of Industrial Costs and Prices, a high-powered expert body specially constituted to undertake the study of industrial cost structures and pricing problems and to advise the Government.
He may have to bear loss in the same way as he does when he suffers losses on account of economic forces operating in the business.
The affidavits filed on behalf of the Union of India show that the procedure which is adopted in hearing the review applications is to discuss across the table the various items that have been taken into account.
