dividend on ordinary shares, being the maximum that could be paid under the Public Companies (Limitation of Dividend) Ordinance of 1948 and also paid to the workers their full share of bonus at annas 4 in a rupee of their basic earnings.
This case was negatived by the Industrial Court as well as the Labour Appellate Tribunal, both of whom held that the working of the appellant during the year 1949 had resulted in a loss.
The respondent thereupon appealed to the Labour Appellate Tribunal which substantially agreed with the Industrial Court on questions of fact as well as the general position in law but imported considerations of social justice and treating this as a special case " where social justice would demand that labour should have bonus for the year where for that very year capital had not only a reasonable return but much in excess of that ", allowed the appeal and directed the appellant to pay to the workmen bonus at the rate of annas 4 per rupee within six weeks of their decision.
The employees would in no event be entitled to any share or interest in the assets and the capital of the company.
" The Textile Labour Inquiry Committee defined 'bonus' as follows :- "The term bonus is applied to a cash payment made in addition to wages.
Because if that theory was accepted a company would not declare any dividends but accumulate the profits, build up reserves and distribute those profits in the shape of bonus shares or reduce the capital in which event the workers would not be entitled to claim anything as and by way of bonus.
A transfer of moneys from these reserves or the undistributed profits would therefore not enure for the benefit of the workers.
was paid to the ordinary shareholders.
:- "But second, the meaning of the word 'bonus' is not given to it by the objection.
The industrial dispute which thus arose was referred for enquiry and recording of an award to the Regional Conciliation Board (Textile), Kanpur.
If in any particular year the working of the industrial concern has resulted in loss there is no basis nor justification for a demand for bonus.
The question which therefore arises for our consideration is mainly whether the workers are entitled to the payment of a bonus in spite of the employer having worked at a loss during the year and incidentally whether the workers have any right, title or interest in the reserves and the undistributed profits of the previous years.
Even on a winding up of a company the property of the company would be applied in satisfaction of its liabilities pari passu and, unless the articles of association of the company otherwise provided, in distribution amongst the members according to their rights and interest in the company.
The principles for the grant of bonus were discussed and a formula was evolved by the Full Bench of the Labour Appellate Tribunal in Millowners' Association, Bombay v. Rashtreeya Mill Mazdoor Sangh, Bombay, (1950) 2 L.L.J. 247;"As both labour and capital contribute to the earnings of the industrial concern, it is fair that labour should derive some benefit, if there is a surplus after meeting prior or necessary charges" and the following were prescribed as the first charges on gross profits, viz., (1) Provision for depreciation, (2) Reserves for rehabilitation, (3) A return at 6 per cent.
1.   This appeal with special leave is directed against the judgment and order of the Labour Appellate Tribunal of India in a dispute regarding the workers' claim for bonus.
It generally represents the cash incentive given conditionally on certain standards of attendance and efficiency being attained." 13.   There are however two conditions which have to be satisfied before a demand for bonus can be justified and they are, (1) when wages fall short of the living standard and (2) the industry makes huge profits part of which are due to the contribution which the workmen make in increasing production.
This definition was adopted by Stirling J. in In re Eddystone Marine Insurance Co, L. R. (I894) W. N. 30; Webster's International Dictionary defines bonus as "something given in addition to what is ordinarily received by or strictly due to the recipient ".
The labour force which earns the profits of a particular year by collaborating with the employers is distinct from the one which contributed to the profits of the previous years and there is no continuity between the labour forces which are employed in the industrial concern during the several years.
4.   On the 4th May, 1950, the Secretary of the respondent Union petitioned to the Provincial Conciliation Officer (Textile) that there was more production in 1949 than in 1948, that there was no reason to hold that the profit in 1949 was less than in the previous year and that the rate of bonus was wrongly reduced and asked that bonus for 1949 should also be paid at the rate of annas 4 per rupee.
17.  It has also got to be remembered that the labour force employed in an industrial concern is a fluctuating body and it cannot be predicated of the labour force in a particular year that it represents the past and the present workers, so that it can claim to demand bonus out of the reserves or undistributed profits of the Previous years.
" 9.   This imports the conception that even though the payment be not strictly due to the recipient nor legally enforceable by him, a claim to the same may be laid by the employee under certain conditions and if such claim is entertained either by an agreement with the employer or by adjudication before a properly constituted Tribunal as on an industrial dispute arising, the same would ripen into a legally enforceable claim.
The appeal will accordingly be allowed with costs.
22.  We may before concluding refer to an argument which was addressed to us by Mr. Isaacs, the learned counsel for the respondent, that this Court under article 136 should not interfere with the decisions of the tribunals set up by the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947.
The Labour Appellate Tribunal also overlooked the fact that but for the Public Companies (Limitation of Dividend) Ordinance of 1948 the whole of the profits of 1948 could have been distributed after paying the workers bonus in that year of four annas in the rupee.
It is also significant to note that even while importing considerations of social justice the Labour Appellate Tribunal was oblivious of the fact that it was by their own acts of indiscipline and strike that the workers of the appellant company themselves contributed, to the trading losses incurred by the appellant and it hardly lay in their mouth then to contend that they were none the less entitled to a payment of bonus commensurate with the dividend paid to the shareholders out of the undistributed profits of the previous years.
" 21.  Without committing ourselves to the acceptance of the above formula in its entirety we may point out that the Labour Appellate Tribunal did not apply its own formula to the facts of the present case.
This can be achieved by having a contented labour force on the one hand, and on the other hand an investing public who would be attracted to the industry by a steady and progressive return on capital which the, industry may be able to offer.
Without embarking upon a discussion as to the exact connotation of the expression "social justice" we may only observe that the concept of social justice does not emanate from the fanciful notions of any particular adjudicator but must be founded on a more solid foundation.
attempted to give a definition in the following terms : "social justice connotes the balance of adjustments of the various interests concerned in the social and economic structure of the State, in order to promote harmony upon an ethical and economic basis" and he stated that there were three parties concerned here, viz., the employers, the labour and the State itself, and the conception of social justice had to be worked out in this context.
