If it was the daughter's estate that was intended to be conferred, there can be no question that the estate taken by the grandsons is not a vested interest".
Though no restraint in express terms was put on her powers of alienation in case of necessity, even that limited power was not given to her in express terms.
" 25.  Reliance was next placed on Maharaja of Kolhapur v. sundaram Iyer (1925) I.L.R. 48 Mad. 1.
"all my properties shall after my death be in possession of my wife herself and she herself should be heir to everything and Mutha Arunachala Chetty (nephew) and my wife, should live together amicably as of one family.
The gift to Mst.
3.  Ramalakshmi died on 25th April, 1938 during the lifetime of the widow.
15.  Mr. Krishnaswami Iyengar sought to derive the greatest support for his contention from the decision in Ram Bahadur v. Jager Nath Prasad 3 Pat.
This suggestion in the surrounding circumstances attending the execution of this will cannot be sustained.
This rule of construction by analogy is a dangerous one to follow in construing wills differently worded and executed in different surroundings.
Bhagwati Devi v. Chowdry Bholonath Thakur (1874-75) 2 I.A 256.
The plaintiff was allowed to amend his plaint and include therein a prayer for a declaration in respect of the invalidity of these alienations as well.
" 27.  These observations are unexceptionable but it may also be pointed out that it is open to a Hindu to confer a limited life estate on his widow or even a larger estate than a widow takes as an heir and that in every case he may not confer upon her by will a Hindu widow's estate which she would otherwise get by inheritance.
Appeal dismissed.
There the testator made a will in favour of his wife providing, inter alia.
22.
She was given a present right of future enjoyment in the property.
They will of course be entitled to enjoy the balance left after payment of rent".
" 21.  Such casual observation made in respect of a will couched in entirely different terms cannot afford much assistance in the decision of the case.
10.  The properties disposed of by the will and mentioned in the schedule were considerable in extent and it seems that they fetched sufficient income to enable the widow to fulfil the obligations under the will.
" 26.  These remarks do not throw much light on the point before us.
409.
" 19.
L. J. 199.
A. 2 5.
[Vide Sasiman v. Shib Narain 491.
14.
In construing the will of a Hindu it is not improper to take into consideration what are known to be the ordinary notions and wishes of Hindus with respect to the devolution of property.
They were all alive in December, 1924, when Lakshminarayana died, Before his death he executed a will on 16th November, 1924, the construction of which is in controversy in this appeal.
Chunderbutti Thakurain, my wife, to be enjoyed during her lifetime, in order that she may hold possession of all the properties and milkiut possessed by me, the declarant, during her lifetime, and by the payment of Government revenue, appropriate the profits derived therefrom, but that she should not by any means transfer the milkiut estates and the slaves; that after the death of my aforesaid wife the milkiut and household furniture shall devolve on Girdhari Thakur, my karta (adopted son)." 31.  The subordinate judge held that Chunderbutti got an estate for life with the power to appropriate profits and Girdhari got a vested remainder on her death.
He wished to make his daughter a fresh stock of descent so that her issue, male or female, may have the benefit of his property.
She represents the estate in all respects and enjoys very wide power except that she cannot alienate except for necessity and her necessities have to be judged on a variety of considerations.
and these shall thereafter pass to her daughters.
The will there recited that if a daughter or son was born to the testator during his lifetime, such son or daughter would be the owner of all his properties but if there was no son or daughter, his niece section would get a bequest of a lakh of rupees, and the rest of the movable and immovable properties would remain in possession of his wife until her death, and after her these would remain in possession of his niece.
We do not understand how such passing observations can be helpful in deciding the present case.
They were the real persons whom he earmarked with certainty as the ultimate recipients of his bounty.
This decision only decides that case and is not very relevant in this enquiry.
24.  This line of reasoning which appealed to the learned judges is not of much he]-) to us here as the language hi this will is quite different.
The unsuccessful defendants preferred an appeal against this decree to the High Court of Judicature at Madras.
In Vasantharao Ammannamma v. Venkata Kodanda Rao Pantalu 1939 Indlaw MAD 621 (1940) M.L.J. 188, the next case cited, a Hindu testator who was a retired subordinate judge provided by his will as follows: "Out, of the aforestated ancestral lands, the oneninth share to which I am entitled shall be enjoyed after my death by my wife till her death, and after her death it shall pass to section son of my second elder brother deceased.
In the first instance, he placed reliance on a decision of the Madras High Court in Ratna Chetty v. Narayana swami Chetty (19I4) 26 M.L.J. 616.
In our judgment, there is force in the contention of Mr. Rajah Iyer for reasons already stated and in the result, therefore, we dismiss this appeal with costs.
The will there ran as follows:- "When I die, my wife named Suraj' is owner of that property.
It was remarked that in spite of an.
Reference was also made to a decision of the Bombay High Court in Lallu v. Jagmohan (1898) I.L.R. 22 Bom.
Thereafter they shall pass to my grandson through my daughter".
Assuming that it is possible to create a Hindu woman's estate not with standing the addition of a gift over, the question nevertheless whether that had been done in a given case must depend on the terms of the particular instrument under consideration.
The Privy Council on this will held as follows: "Their Lordships do not feel justified, upon mere conjecture of what might probably have been intended, in so interpreting it as materially to change the nature of the estate taken by Chunderbutti.
However, out of respect for learned counsel on both sides who adopted the same method of approach we proceed to examine some of the important cases referred to by them.
Their Lordships see no sufficient reason for importing into this document words which would carry with them all these consequences and they agree with the subordinate judge in construing it according to its plain meaning.
" 32.  These observations have to a certain extent relevance to the present case but on the facts this case is also distinguishable.
Just as the widow was directed to enjoy tile entire properties mentioned in the schedule during her lifetime in like manner the daughter and her heirs were also directed to enjoy the same properties with absolute rights from generation to generation.
34.  After considering the rival contentions of the parties, we are of the opinion that no sufficient grounds have been made out for disturbing the unanimous opinion of the two courts below on the construction of this will.
There is no such indication in the will before us.
" 33.  It was held that Suraj took only a life estate under the will, with remainder over to Mahalaxmi after her death and the bequest to Mahalaxmi was not contingent on her surviving Suraj, but that she took a vested remainder which upon her death passed to her heirs.
Leave to appeal to the Supreme Court was granted and the appeal was admitted on the 27th November, 1951.
It is not shown that she alienated a single item of immovable property till the year 1945, a period of over 21 years after the death of her husband, excepting one, which she alienated in the year 1937 to raise a sum of Rs. 1,000 in order to buy some land.
But as regards the immovable property none shall have the lest right of alienation.
The fact that the gift over was a contingent bequest was by itself taken as a sure indication that the preceding bequest was that of a widow's estate.
