After his death on July 18, 1949, his son Mohd. Abdul Khader became a tenant.
(2) and (3), be deemed to be a protected tenant in respect of the land if he has fulfilled the conditions mentioned in clauses (a) and (b) of sub- section (1) of section 34 of the said Act.
he was a protected tenant under section 34 read with section 37 or under section 37-A of the Andhra Pradesh Act.
(2) No order of the Tahsildar, Tribunal or Collector or of the Board of Revenue or Government made under this Act, shall be questioned in any Civil or Criminal Court.
On or about 22nd of April, 1985 the appellant filed the objection reserving the right of raising the jurisdiction of the Arbitrator to go into the question whether Abdul Khader was a protected tenant in the light of the Act 21 of 1950.
The two orders of this Court as we have mentioned hereinbefore dated 30th of January, 1975 and 19th of August.
(3) of section 40 of the said Act provides that if a protected tenant dies without leaving any heirs all his rights shall be so extinguished.
The arbitrator therefore, exceeded his jurisdiction and the High Court was in error.
We are of the opinion that the High Court was not in error in so holding.
section 38 of the said Act deals with right of protected tenant to purchase land.
Claim petition was filed by the appellant before the arbitrator' Claim petition was also filed by Abdul Khader claiming 60'% of compensation as a 'protected tenant'.
Who are the persons who have interest in the land had to be decided in accordance with the law and the evidence.
The High Court on reciting the facts came to the conclusions, inter alia: (a) that Abdul Khader because he was a tenant between January, 1942 to January, 1948 for six years, therefore, was a protected tenant under sub-cl.
Chapter IV of the Andhra Pradesh Act deals with protected tenants and section 34 of the said Act provides who is to be considered as a protected tenant and uses the expression that a person shall, subject to the provisions of sub-ss.
On behalf of the appellant it was submitted that there was a complete bar for any civil court to go into the question whether Abdul Khader was a protected tenant and as such the arbitrator and the High Court had no jurisdiction to decide this question.
Now, as the arbitrator has already been appointed, he will go into the matter as to whether the petitioner was a protected tenant of the lands or not and if he was the protected tenant to what share in the compensation amount he would be entitled to.
In these circumstances, the High Court held that Adbul Khader was entitled to 60% of the compensation paid.
On or about 19th of April, 1972 the order was passed by the District Revenue Officer who held that Abdul Khader was not a protected tenant.
Shri A.K. Sen, on behalf of the respondents on the other hand contended that the compensation payable in respect of the requisitioning and acquisition must be determined under the Central Act and the arbitrator was the authority to decide that question.
Aggrieved by the aforesaid award, the appellant claiming as one of the owners of the property filed a statutory appeal to the High Court.
In determining the amount of compensation payable to Abdul Khader under the Central Act, his interests in the property had to be determined.
The appellant is one of the owners of the property in question deriving their title and right from the said Sail Nawaz Jung.
It was observed that the High Court was at liberty to consider the claims to be made by both the parties and pass any fresh order with regard to the disbursement of the remaining 60% of the compensation.
the arbitrator has decided that question and the High Court found over whelming evidence in support of it.
The High Court was of the view that there was surfeit of evidence prior to the commencement of the Andhra Pradesh Act that Shaik Hussain was a tenant of the land.
Shri Shanker Ghosh, learned counsel for the appellant, urged that under the said Andhra Pradesh Act it was mandatory under section 99 read with section 102 of the said Act in conjunction with the definition of section 2(r) of the Act for the revenue authorities to decide whether Abdul Khader was a protected tenant or not.
The Court reiterated that there was surfeit of evidence to declare that Abdul Khader was a tenant.
I suspect that somebody has tampered the register and entered the name of Sri Mohd. Abdul Khader.
We are not concerned with the challenge to this aspect in this appeal.
The Kowlnama executed in favour of the son, Mohd. Abdul Khader, on December 3, 1950 was filed and was marked as Exhibit C-1.
1975 held that since the question whether the petitioner in that case namely, Abdul Khader was a protected tenant had been left open by the High Court to be decided by the Arbitrator section 8 of the Central Act, special leave petition was rejected with those observations.
After giving our due consideration to the question we are of the view that the High Court should determine this question.
In the background of the totality of circumstances as manifest in the different orders it appeared to the arbitrator and the Court that the entry which was made in favour of Abdul Khader as the protected tenant was of doubtful validity.
section 3 of the said Act gave power to requisition immovable property.
1985 reiterated the position that it was for the arbitrator to decide the question and he should decide the question in the light of sections 99 and 102 of the Andhra Pradesh Act as set out hereinbefore.
The question was whether on enforcement of the said Act Abdul Khader, respondent herein, was a protected tenant.
which made the determination by the Tahsildar to be final and debarred other courts from going into the question did not apply in case of compensation payable.
Kowlnama executed in favour of Shaik Hussain was not filed.
The rights of the protected tenants have been defined in the Andhra Pradesh Act and relevant provisions of that Act namely, sections 34, 37, 37A and 40 in conjunction with the definition under section 2(r) have to be taken into consideration in the background of the facts and circumstances of the case.
Three civil appeals were filed before this Court against the order of the High Court on 15th May, 1985.
1 p. 101, where the Court observed in the context of the Land Acquisition Act that a tenant was a 'person interested' as defined in clause (b) of section 3 of the Land Acquisition Act.
Under these circumstances, the C.R.P. is dismissed with a direction that the entry made in the Final Record of Tenancies that the petitioner was the protected tenant, for the lands in question which is spurious as found by both the Revenue Divisional Officer and the District Revenue Officer should be deleted.
He had sought to establish his rights which must be found within the four corners of the Andhra Pradesh Act along with other documents because section 40(4) of the Andhra Pradesh Act the interest of a protected tenant in the land held by him as a protected tenant formed 60%.
The main question centres around the right of Abdul Khader, respondent No. 1 herein to the compensation awarded by the arbitrator, it is therefore, necessary to refer to the relevant portion of the said order which inter alia, stated as follows: "By perusal of the Tenancy Register of 1958 it is evident that Sri Mohd. Abdul Khader is not a genuine protected tenant.
section 7 authorises the Central Government where it is of the opinion that it is necessary to do so to acquire requisitioned property.
It is clear that section 102 of the Andhra Pradesh Act mentions that after acquisition the Act was not to apply in respect of certain land.
We may mention that in the two orders of this Court dated 30th of January, 1975 and 19th of August, 1985 referred to herein before, this Court had left it open to the High Court and to the arbitrator to decide whether he is a protected tenant or not.
He has a right to object to the acquisition and/or the quantum of compensation.
In that view of the matter we are unable to accept the challenge to the award.
It was the observation of the revenue authorities that it was spurious.
Therefore, it was submitted by the respondents that section 99 of the Andhra Pradesh Act.
By the scheme of the Central Act compensation was payable to persons who had interest in the land acquired.
According to the appellant inasmuch as whether Abdul Khader was a protected tenant had not to be settled by the Collector or the Tribunal, the arbitrator and the High Court were in error in going to that question.
For this reliance was placed on section 102 of the Andhra Pradesh Act which lays down that the Act will not apply to lands leased, granted, alienated or acquired in favour of or by the Central Government or the State Government etc.
The question of Abdul Khader's right to compensation had to be decided in accordance with law.
Aggrieved by the aforesaid decision, the appellants being the successor of the owner of the land in question is in appeal before us.
(1) of section 34 of the Andhra Pradesh Act; (b) that Abdul Khader held the land from October, 1943 to October, 1949, therefore, was a protected tenant of Sail Gulshan under sub-cl.
