Consequently, the Adjudicating Authority called upon the appellants to pay differential duty for the period April 1994 to June 1994 amounting to Rs.3,74,948 plus short paid duty for the period April 1995 to May 1995 amounting to Rs.92,992.
Under the said Agreement M/s. Kay Aar Biscuits (P) Ltd. was Party No.1.
We do not find any merit in this argument.
These are considerations which are relevant in disputes arising out of infringement/passing of actions under the Trade Marks Act.
It was conceded by Mr. Shah that the labels which were used on the food products manufactured by Kipre and Co. Private Ltd, did bear the name of Kipre and Co. Private Ltd. immediately below the mark "Monarch" and that the respondent company's name was printed below it as sole distributors.
" 13.  Notification No.1/93-CE dated 28.2.1993 was subsequently amended by Notification No.59/94 dated 1.3.94.
Appeals dismissed.
10.  By Order dated 8.12.2000, CEGAT rejected the above Rectification Application made by the Appellants.
36.  Before concluding we may refer to the Judgment of this Court in the case of Commissioner of Central Excise, Mumbai v. Bigen Industries Ltd. 2006 (197) ELT 305 2006 Indlaw SC 546.
Instead of compelling the holder of a trade mark in every case to prove his proprietary right, the Act provides a procedure whereby on registration the owner gets certain facilities in the mode of proving his title.
The name of that Director is Madan Verma.
The object of the Notification is to grant benefits only to those industries which otherwise do not have the advantage of a brand name.
In the circumstances, the burden was on the assessee (appellants herein) to satisfy the Adjudicating Authority that there was no intention of indicating a connection with the goods of the assessee and such other person.
He in fact used it in respect of watches.
The mark can be originated by a person, or it can be subsequently acquired by him from somebody else.
The Department has rightly placed reliance on the Agreement of 23.11.89.
22.
In short it was a competition between a foreign trader and the Indian importer for the proprietorship of that mark in this country.
Discontinuation of business in respect of a product does not necessarily amount to abandonment.
To summarise, therefore, a trader acquires a right of property in a distinctive mark merely by using it upon or in connection with his goods irrespective of the length of such user and the extent of his trade.
27.
The Assistant Commissioner, Ghaziabad, examined the printed wrappers.
Before the Commissioner (A) the appellants herein contended that they had used the name "M/s. Meghraj Biscuits Industries Ltd." on the wrapper and not on the product and, therefore, they were entitled to exemption.
The applicant was the originator of that mark so far as that class of goods is concerned, and so far as this country is concerned.
Sub-cl.
25.
I have also pointed out that the statute which came to be enacted in England in 1875 and the subsequent statutes did nothing more than to embody the rights in relation to trade marks which were already laid down by the Courts of Equity.
He has filed an affidavit enclosing the registration certificate dated 30.6.2000.
33.
31.
U/s.
8.
5.
3.
A person may become a proprietor of a trade mark in diverse ways.
Common law rights are left wholly unaffected.
In the present case, we are concerned with the retrospective effect of the certificate issued by the Registrar of Trade Marks on 30.6.2000 with effect from 30.9.91.
Therefore, if a person invaded or threatened to invade the other's right to, or enjoyment of, property, the Court section 54 had the discretion to grant a perpetual injunction, and trade mark was as much property for the purpose of section 54 as any other kind of property.
Law in India under our present Act is similar.
Several authorities were cited and were considered and principles deduced and relied upon in that behalf.
This deeming fiction cannot be extended to the Excise Law.
See observations of Llyod Jacob J. in 1956 RPC 1.
Under the Agreement there was a recital under which it was stated that M/s. Rich Food Products (P) Ltd. had put up a Unit for manufacture of wafers in Noida which it sought to manufacture under the brand name "Meghraj".
This question has been decided by the Bombay High Court in the case of Sunder Parmanand Lalwani and Others v. Caltex (India) Ltd. AIR 1969 Bombay 24 1965 Indlaw MUM 1419 in which it has been held vide paras '32' and '38' as follows: "A proprietary right in a mark can be obtained in a number of ways.
Para '7' of Notification No.1/93-CE as amended read as under: "Para-7 The exemption contained in this Notification shall not apply to the specified goods where a manufacturer affixes the specified goods with a brand name or trade name (registered or not) of another person, who is not eligible for the grant of exemption under this Notification.
As between two competitors who are each desirous of adopting such a mark, "it is, to use familiar language, entirely a question of who gets there first." Gaw Kan Lye v. Saw Kyone Saing, AIR 1939 Rang 343 (FB).
Our judgment is confined only to the period in question under the impugned show cause notices.
As a matter of fact, the statute enabled a person to have registered a mark not only which he had been using but also a mark which he proposed to use.
In the case of Pahwa Chemicals Pvt. Ltd. v. Commissioner of Central Excise, Delhi 2005 (189) ELT 257 2005 Indlaw SC 799(SC) this Court has held that the object of the exemption Notification was neither to protect the owners of the trade mark nor the consumers from being misled.
Apparently, in such a case there is no question of infringement of any right of property in a trade mark for which any relief is sought, nor is there any question of passing- off, so that it might be necessary to enter into questions of nicety as regards whether there could or could not be any property in a trade mark.
Explanation IX defined the word "brand name" or "trade name".
Registration under the statute does not confer any new right to the mark claimed or any greater right than what already existed at common law and at equity without registration.
2.  Appellants were engaged in the manufacture of biscuits classifiable under Sub-Heading 1905.11 of the Central Excise Tariff.
The object of the Notification, therefore, was to help the SSI Units and thereby increased industrial production.
The respondent company is described as the sole distributors on the label.
It does, however, facilitate a remedy which may be enforced and obtained throughout the State and it established the record of facts affecting the right to the mark.
35.  Applying the principle of deemed equivalence we may clarify that if the SSI unit wrongly affixes a trade mark of another person, be it registered or not, or if it uses the trade mark of an ineligible person then such default would not be eliminated by the above principle of deemed equivalence embodied in section 28 of the Trade Marks Act, 1999 as that principle is based on a deeming fiction which fiction is confined only to the provisions of the Trade Marks Act.
In In re Century Spinning and Manufacturing Co. Ltd., 49 Bom LR 52 : (AIR 1947 Bom 445), Chagla, J. (as he then was) observed in this connection : as follows "The question is whether in India the Trade Marks Act of 1940 has made any change in the legal rights of the owner of a trade mark.
In para '19' of the show cause notice the authority accepted the existence of a deed of assignment.
4.  The said agreement was valid for three years commencing from 22.11.1989.
The trader who adopts such a mark is entitled to protection directly the article having assumed a vendible character is launched upon the market.
Before concluding we may point out that we do not wish to express any opinion on the subsequent events which have taken place in this case.
Now, once again turning to the provisions of section 18 sub-section (I), it is clear that only a person claiming to be the proprietor of a trade mark used by him or proposed to be used by him could make an application to the Registrar for the registration thereof.
Priority in adoption and use of a trade mark is superior to priority in registration.
Our Trade Marks law is based on the English Trade Marks law and the English Acts.
But, that is not the case.
The trade mark exists independently of the registration which merely affords further protection under the statute.
Abandonment of the trade mark has to be proved by the appellants in the present case.
It was held that the word "Meghraj" was printed on all the printed wrappers and, therefore, it was wrong to say that the appellants were not using the brand name "Meghraj" on its products.
If these two names had stood by themselves without any further description of either of them, it could be said that both Kipre and Co. and the respondent company were jointly the owners of the mark as well as the owners of the goods to which the label was affixed.
That was enough in the eyes of the Courts of Equity to entitle him to a relief by way of an injunction in case of an infringement of his mark by some other trader.
For instance, under S.23 of the Trade Marks Act registration is to be prima facie evidence of the validity of the trade mark." "This was precisely the view which was expressed by Lord Justice Romer in (1905) 1 K.B. 592 to which I have already referred in the earlier part of the judgment.
He could do the latter after complying with the other requirements of the Act, including the filing of a declaration of his intention to use such mark.
(I) of section 20 of the Trade Marks Act itself assumes and implies that such a right existed in the owner of a trade mark because it says that the unregistered holder of a trade mark can maintain a suit for the infringement of a trade mark provided that the trade mark was in use before February 25, 1937, and an application for registration had been made and refused.
In India, the mark "Caltex" was a totally new mark for watches and allied goods.
Prior to the Acts, one could become a proprietor of a trade mark only by user, but after the passing of the Act of 1875, one could become a proprietor either by user or by registering the mark even prior to its user.
I, therefore, agree with the learned Advocate General that all that the Trade Marks Act has done is to facilitate the mode of proof.
In the present case, the facts are entirely different.
We have already reached a conclusion that so far as this country is concerned, Degoumois & Co. have totally disclaimed any interest in the proprietorship of that mark for watches etc.
All that was necessary for the plaintiff to prove was that he had used that mark in respect of his particular type of goods.
In the circumstances, the Department was right in rejecting the above contention.
In our opinion, it is not necessary in this case to go into details about facts in the various decided cases dealing with importer's marks.
At this stage, it may be noted that the appellants herein claim to have started manufacture of biscuits in 1991.
In the circumstances, the appellants submitted that the demand for differential duty was unwarranted.
He is the Director of the appellants (company) also.
1.  Aggrieved by the decision of Customs, Excise and Gold Control Appellate Tribunal (CEGAT) dated 11.4.2000, the appellants (assessee) have come by way of civil appeals under Section 35L of the Central Excise Act, 1944.
