Respondent No. 4 was in possession of a contiguous plot.
The primary meaning has been said to be the abandonment of a right in such a way that the other party is entitled to plead the abandonment by way of confession and avoidance if the right is thereafter asserted, and is either express or implied from conduct.
867 sq.
Procedure to be followed by Town Planning Officer section 51 and under sub-s.
It is not in dispute that: "(a) Appellant although filed an objection with regard to the draft scheme, did not choose to pursue it.
Every owner or tenant or a sub-tenant, in possession on that date alone shall be entitled to a notice and opportunity.
Amended rules are in pari materia with Rule 26 of the Rules.
17/7 and 17/8.
m. of land.
A road widening project was proposed in terms of the said scheme.
Appeal dismissed.
33.
(b) He did not file objections for re-allotment and did not participate in the proceedings following acquisition instituted by the authorities under the Act.
It was held that he had thereby waived his right to have the caveat set aside as lapsed section 23.
36.  section 67 of the Act provides that all lands required by the appropriate authority shall, unless it is otherwise determined in such scheme, vest absolutely in the appropriate authority free from all encumbrances with effect from the date on which the preliminary scheme comes into force.
20.
Procedure for eviction section 68.
It was on that legal principle, this Court in State of Gujarat v. Shantilal Mangaldas & Ors.
Leave granted.
41.  In Halsbury's Laws of England, Volume 16(2), 4th edition, para 907, it is stated: "The expression 'waiver' may, in law, bear different meanings.
(c) If the person to be evicted resists or obstructs the officer or Servant deputed u/cl.
15.
section 45 provides for reconstitution of the plots, sub-s.
I think he is altogether too late.
Notices therefor were issued both to the appellant as also the respondent No. 4.  Appellant objected thereto.
" 11.  Mr. Lalit in support of his contention strongly relied upon a decision of this Court in Mansukhlal Jadavji Darji and Others v. Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation and Others [(1992) 1 SCC 384 1991 Indlaw SC 975] and Jaswantsingh Mathurasingh and Another v. Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation and Others [1992 Supp (1) SCC 5 1991 Indlaw SC 972].
He has no enforceable claim against the State at this juncture.
[2006 (8) SCALE 631 2006 Indlaw SC 786], this Court observed: "The matter may be considered from another angle.
65 : 54 E.R. 813, 817] "waiver or acquiescence, like election, presupposes that the person to be bound is fully cognizant of his rights, and, that being so, he neglects to enforce them, or chooses one benefit instead of another, either, but not both, of which he might claim".
Issuance of any such direction, in our opinion, is legally impermissible.
[Maneklal Chhotalal & Ors.
Such notice shall be published in the Official Gazette and in one or more Gujarati newspapers circulated within the area of the appropriate authority and shall be pasted in prominent places at or near the areas comprised in the scheme and at the office of the Town Planning Officer.
It is well-settled that what cannot be done directly cannot be done indirectly.
Suffice it to say that the tenant will be at liberty to resort to appropriate proceedings against the landlord for the inter se rights and also for entitlement of the compensation.
He may in a given case disentitle himself from obtaining an equitable relief particularly when he allows a thing to come to an irreversible situation.
35.
5.
3.
" 44.  The legal principle emerging from these decisions is also stated in Craies on Statute Law (6th Edn.) at page 369 as follows: "As a general rule, the conditions imposed by statutes which authorise legal proceedings are treated as being indispensable to giving the court jurisdiction.
They referred with approval to the decision in Phillips v. Martin where the Chief Justice said: "Here there is abundant evidence of waiver, and it is quite clear that a man may by his conduct waive a provision of an Act of Parliament intended for his benefit.
As Sir Johan Romilly M. R. has observed in Vyvyan v. Vyvyan [1861] 30 Beav.
If a claim is not filed, the person, who is said to be injuriously affected, does so at its own peril.
He used to run a business of marble and stone therein.
In spite of this you have not handed over the possession.
30.  We would, however, assume that it was obligatory on the part of the State to serve a special notice upon the appellant.
He may, however, take recourse to such remedy which is available with him in law including one by filing a suit or making a representation before the State.
" 23.  We may, however, notice that Rule 21 of the Bombay Rules provides for notice under Sub-rule (3) thereof and a reasonable opportunity of hearing under Sub-Rule (5) thereof.
A right can be waived by the party for whose benefit certain requirements or conditions had been provided for by a statute subject to the condition that no public interest is involved therein.
49.  Mr. Lalit submits that his client is ready and willing to pay some reasonable amount to the respondent No. 3 in whose favour plot No. 165 has been finally allotted.
Statutory right, however, may also be waived by his conduct." [Emphasis supplied] [See also Bank of India v. O.P. Swarnakar (2003) 2 SCC 721 2002 Indlaw SC 1562] 47.  In Ramdev Food Products Pvt. Ltd. v. Arvindbhai Rambhai Patel and Ors.
39.  It is not a case where the State by its acts of omissions and commissions was unjustly enriching itself.
It had also not been contended that the said Rule is ultra vires section 52 of the Act.
No costs.
43.  In The Director of Inspection of Income Tax (Investigation), New Delhi and Another v. Pooran Mal & Sons and Another [(1975) 4 SCC 568 1974 Indlaw SC 354] the issue was regarding waiver of benefits under a statute of limitation.
Waiver can be inferred only if and after it is shown that the party knew about the relevant facts and was aware of his right to take the objection.
It was stated: "We may in this connection refer to the decision in Wilson v. McIntosh.
Every step taken by the State does not involve application of the doctrine of eminent domain.
v. Brijendra Prasad Gupta and Others, etc.
As he did not respond thereto, a notice section 68 of the Act was served on him on 31.03.2000 stating: "As per the said approved preliminary scheme the plot No. 157 is allotted to you.
v. M.G. Makwana & Ors.
2008 (4) SCALE 278 2008 Indlaw SC 527] 38.  We are, however, not oblivious that in a given situation, a question may also arise as to whether the restrictions imposed by a statute are reasonable or not.
Even if he had a claim he would be deemed to have waived the same for the reasons stated hereinafter.
If you fail to do so then on completion of the stipulated time limit as per the Rule 33 of the Gujarat Town Planning and Urban Development Rules, 1979 the said land and the occupation on the same will be summarily evicted and your occupation will be removed and if you obstruct/ interfere on it after taking away the possession you trespass then as provided under Rule 33 of the Gujarat Town Planning and Urban Development Rules, 1979 the Action as per the section 188 of the Indian Penal Code will be initiated against you before the Criminal Court, pleased take note of the same.
What would be the quantum of payment of compensation therefor is also provided in section 82 of the Act.
section 81 of the Act enables the State to transfer of right from original to final plot or extinction of such right.
Therefore, in my view considering the peculiar facts and circumstances of the present case, the decision of the Apex Court in case of Mansukhlal1991 Indlaw SC 975 (supra) cannot be made applicable to the present case.
32.  Different statutes provide for different manner of service of notice.
The considerations referred to above will also show that the grievance of the petitioners that article 14 is violated, is also not acceptable." [See also Bhikhubhai Vithlabhai Patel & Ors.
Such is not the issue in the present case nor there is any complaint by the tenant that any special notice was not served or that the mandatory procedure for finalization of the scheme is not followed.
The question, however, would be : what would be the consequence of non-compliance thereof vis-'- vis the conduct of the appellant himself? 31.  A person may waive a right either expressly or by necessary implication.
In that case an applicant to bring lands under the Real Property Act filed his case in court under Section 21, more than three months after a caveat had been lodged, and thereafter obtained an order that the caveator should file her case, which she accordingly did.
22.  A Town Planning Scheme, therefore, envisages calling for objection from the persons concerned for three purposes: "(i) in regard to draft scheme; (ii) lodging of any claim for payment of compensation; (iii) participation in the matter of allotment of final plots.
Such conduct precludes and operates as estoppel against him with respect to asserting a right over a portion of the acquired land in a situation where the scheme in question has attained finality following as a result of the appellant's inaction.
[See Sureshchandra C. Mehta v. State of Karnataka and Others 1994 Supp (2) SCC 511 1993 Indlaw SC 538] In West Bengal Housing Board etc.
While the proceedings relating to allotment of final plot were in progress, he even did not file any objection thereto.
What is in dispute is the distribution of quantum thereof between two competing claimants, viz., landlord and tenant.
Appellant was a tenant under the said respondent in respect of Plot No. 17/8 admeasuring 1067 sq.m.
2.  Before embarking upon the issue involved in this appeal, we may notice the admitted fact of the matter.
21.  Rules 26 of the Rules do not contemplate service of individual notice.
It is in the aforementioned situation, a claim is to be made before the authority whenever a notice in Form H is published.
section 40 of the Act empowers the appropriate authority to make one or more schemes.
