Explanation.-For the purposes of this clause, an invention relating to a process for which a patent is claimed shall be deemed to have been publicly known or publicly used in India before the priority date of the claim if a product made by that process had already been imported into India before that date except where such importation has been for the purpose of reasonable trial or experiment only; (e) that the invention so far as claimed in any claim of the complete specification is obvious and clearly does not involve any inventive step, having regard to the matter published as mentioned in cl.
One more aspect needs to be mentioned.
They are FAO No.292/06 and FAO No.293/06.
The Legislature intended to have a dichotomy between "pre-grant opposition" and "post-grant opposition".
(2) An appeal shall lie to the Appellate Board from any decision, order or direction of the Controller or Central Government under Section 15, Section 16, Section 17, Section 18, Section 19, Section 20, Section 25, Section 27, Section 28, Section 51, Section 54, Section 57, Section 60, Section 61, Section 63, Section 66, Sub- section (3) of Section 69, Section 78, Sub-ss.
(d) or cl.
1.1.2005.
Provision is also at times made for appointment of different dates for coming into force of different parts of the same Act.
By then, the Patents (Amendment) Act, 1999 had amended the Patents Act, 1970 w.e.f.
3.  Quite often the commencement of an Act is postponed to some specified future date or to such date as the Appropriate Government may, by Notification in the Official Gazette, appoint.
Suffice it to note that Ss. 116 and 117A were not brought into force.
According to the appellant, this was a structural change in the principal Act.
(e) of Sub-section (2), the Controller shall not take into account any personal document or secret trial or secret use.
This amended Section 117G was also brought into force vide Notification dated 3.4.2007.
Appeals (1) No appeal shall lie from any decision, order or correction made of issued under this Act by the Central Government, or from any act or order of the Controller for the purpose of giving effect to any such decision, order or direction.
(c) of Sub-s.
Leave granted.
" 11.  The provisions of the said Amendment Act, 2002, however, were not simultaneously brought into force.
26.3.99.
(b) shall conduct the examination in accordance with such procedure as may be prescribed.
This is where the legislative intent got defeated during the interregnum.
On 14.6.2000 J. Mitra & Company Pvt. Ltd.,3 appellant herein, filed its application for grant of patent.
Therefore, we are of the view that respondent no.3 cannot be let without remedy.
The said appeals would be heard and disposed of by the High Court in accordance with law section 116 of the said 1970 Act as it stood on 19.10.06.
4.
1.1.2005, however, such restructuring did not obliterate the first appeal filed by respondent no.3 on 19.10.2006; and lastly it was argued on behalf respondent no.3 that the appellant had filed its application for grant of patent on 14.6.2000, it was notified on 20.11.04, however, respondent no.3 had filed its "pre-grant opposition" under section 25(1) on 21.3.05 when the Patents (Amendment) Act, 2005 was not promulgated (it was promulgated on 4.4.05) and, therefore, according to respondent no.3 its "pre-grant opposition" filed on 21.3.05 was valid and proper as respondent no.3 could not have invoked section 25(2) proceedings on that day, namely, 21.3.05 as the law stood enacted bringing in section 25(2) only on 4.4.05.
There is, however, a radical shift due to incorporation of section 25(2) where an interested party is granted the right to challenge the patent after its grant.
62 that amended section 117 G is consequential to the enforcement of the jurisdiction of the Appellate Board section 64 which results to revocation of patent.
Under Notes on Clauses attached to the Statement of Objects and Reasons, it has been clarified, vide cl.
16.
(2) Where any such notice of opposition is duly given, the Controller shall notify the applicant and shall give to the applicant and the opponent an opportunity to be heard before deciding the case.
This was not done.
The substituted section 25 reads as under: "25.
We have to decide the fate of these pending appeals.
In the peculiar circumstances of this case it was urged on behalf of respondent no.3 that no interference is called for by this Court in this batch of civil appeals.
24.  In the present case, the Legislature intended to provide for two types of scrutiny followed by one statutory appeal to the Appellate Board against "post-grant proceedings".
22.  An Act cannot be said to commence or to be in force unless it is brought into operation by legislative enactment or by the exercise of authority by a delegate empowered to bring it into operation.
However, it was left to the Executive to bring the enacted law into force vide notification.
(4) that the patent shall be maintained subject to amendment of the specification or any other document, the patent shall stand amended accordingly.
We are informed that there are hardly one or two matters of this nature which are pending.
The reason is obvious.
It reads as under: "Section 117G. Transfer of pending proceedings to Appellate Board.- All cases of appeals against any order or decision of the Controller and all cases pertaining to revocation of patent other than on a counter-claim in a suit for infringement and rectification of register pending before any High Court, shall be transferred to the Appellate Board from such date as may be notified by the Central Government in the Official Gazette and the Appellate Board may proceed with the matter either de novo or from the stage it was so transferred.
in India or elsewhere, in any other document: Provided that the ground specified in Sub-cl.
section 116.
This is the main rationale underlying section 25(2) of the said 1970 Act.
Appeal disposed of.
(1) if no patent has been granted in pursuance of the application mentioned in that clause; and for the purpose of any inquiry u/cl.
1.  For the sake of convenience we refer to the facts mentioned in Civil Appeal No of 2008 (arising out of S.L.P. (C) No.15729 of 2008) filed by J. Mitra & Co. Pvt. Ltd 2.  This matter is a classic illustration of the confusion which has emerged on account of the postponement of in-part commencement of Patents (Amendment) Act, 2005.
Therefore, the Courts had evolved the 'rule of caution' as the patent had not faced any challenge at the hands of interested parties.
(6) In case the Controller issues an order under Sub-s.
However, on that date appeal against pre-grant opposition order was maintainable, under Section 116, to the High Court and, therefore, there is no merit in the argument advanced on behalf of the appellant that the first appeal filed by respondent no.3 was misconceived; that, it is true that section 25 got restructured w.e.f.
After scrutiny, the said application stood notified by the Patent Office on 20.11.2004.
The main difference between section 25(1) and section 25(2), as brought about by Patents (Amendment) Act, 2005, is that even after a patent is granted, "post-grant opposition" can be filed under section 25 (2) for a period of one year.
(b) or having regard to what was used in India before the priority date of the applicant's claim; c. that the subject of any claim of the complete specification is not an invention within the meaning of this Act, or is not patentable under this Act; d. that the complete specification does not sufficiently and clearly describe the invention or the method by which it is to be performed; e. that the applicant has failed to disclose to the Controller the information required by section 8 or has furnished the information which in any material particular was false to his knowledge; f. that in the case of a convention application, the application was not made within twelve months from the date of the first application for protection for the invention made in a convention country by the applicant or a person from whom he derives title; But on no other ground.
9.  In 2002, the Legislature desired an amendment to the law and intended to create an appellate forum to hear appeals against orders passed by the Controller consequently Patents (Amendment) Act, 2002 was promulgated on 25.6.2002.
The Appellate Board after 2.4.07 is entitled to hear appeals only arising from orders passed by the Controller under section 25(4), i.e., in cases of orders passed in "post-grant opposition".
Previously, the only provision of challenge by an interested party was a "pre-grant" challenge under section 25 (1) as it then stood.
6.  Thus, proceedings commenced before the Controller of Patents in the year 2000 when the appellant herein sought a patent of their device which was opposed by respondent no.3 in the year 2000.
The result is that although the Legislature intended to provide for only one statutory appeal to the Appellate Board, by reason of section 61 of the Patents (Amendment) Act, 2005 not being brought into force till 2.4.07 a strange situation developed.
(2) A person shall not be qualified for appointment as a Technical Member for the purposes of this Act unless he- (a) has, at least five years, hold the post of Controller under this Act or has exercised the functions of the Controller under this Act for at least five years; or (b) has, for at least ten years, functioned as a Registered Patent Agent and possesses a degree in engineering or technology or a masters degree in science from any University established under law for the time being in force or equivalent; or (c) has, for at least ten years, been an advocate of a proven specialized experience in practicing law relating to patents and designs.
