Proviso (d) appended thereto states that in the case of a Government work, Government shall, in the absence of any agreement to the contrary, be the first owner of the copyright therein.
Section 13 which occurs in Chapter III of the Act provides that subject to the provisions thereof and the other provisions of the said Act, copyright shall subsists throughout India in the following classes of works, that is to say,- (a) original literary, dramatic, musical and artistic works; (b) cinematograph films; and (c) sound recording.
I, therefore, hold that the bequest of copyright in literary works and books in favour of the plaintiff by Dr. Karanth, will have to be treated as the bequest covering the dramatic works also since I have also drawn the conclusion that the dramatic works is also a form of literature.
It was furthermore contended that Dr. Karanth was appointed as the President of the Executive Committee of Yakshagana Kendra for a period of three years by the appellant and while holding the said post only he expired.
Thus, if some performance or dance is carried out within the purview of the said clause, the order of injunction shall not be applicable.
The word 'author' is defined in Section 2(d) to mean, (i) in relation to a literary or dramatic work, the author of the work; (ii) in relation to a musical work, the composer; (iii) in relation to an artistic work other than a photograph, the artist; (iv) in relation to a photograph, the person taking the photograph; (v) in relation to a cinematograph film or sound recording, the producer; and (vi) in relation to any literary, dramatic, musical or artistic work which is computer-generated, the person who causes the work to be created.
As a violation of copyright amounts to an act of piracy it must be proved by clear and cogent evidence after applying the various tests laid down by the case-law discussed above.
The trivial variation or inputs put in the judgment would not satisfy the test of copyright of an author.
There can be no copyright in an idea, subject-matter, themes, plots or historical or legendary facts and violation of the copyright in such cases is confined to the form, manner and arrangement and expression of the idea by the author of the copyrighted work.
However, we may notice that whereas the trial court has proceeded on the basis that clause 12 of the Will shall apply in the instant case, the High Court opined that clause 11 thereof is attracted, stating: "No doubt, by reading para-12 of the 'Will' in isolation, one can certainly arrive at the conclusion that the bequest made in favour of the plaintiff is in the nature of residuary bequest.
52 Certain acts not to be infringement of copyright.- (1) The following acts shall not constitute an infringement of copyright, namely:- (a) a fair dealing with a literary, dramatic, musical or artistic work not being a computer programme for the purpose of- (i) Private use including research; (ii) criticism or review, whether of that work or of any other work; xxx xxx xxx (i) the performance, in the course of the Activities of an educational institution, of a literary, dramatic or musical work by the staff and student of the institution, or of a cinematograph film or a sound recording, if the audience is limited to such staff and students, the parents and guardians of the students and persons directly connected with the Activities of the institution or the communication to such an audience of a cinematograph film or sound recording.
We make it clear that the decision of ours would be confined to the judgments of the courts which are in the public domain as by virtue of Section 52 of the Act there is no copyright in the original text of the judgments.
The copyright work which comes into being should be original in the sense that by virtue of selection, coordination or arrangement of pre-existing data contained in the work, a work somewhat different in character is produced by the author.
We may notice at this stage that the form of injunction granted both by the learned trial judge as also by the High Court in favour of the plaintiff-respondent.
It was, however, urged: (i) Keeping in view of the findings of the learned trial judge, it ought to have been held that no cause of action arose against the appellants in this case as the Institution had performed the said dance at New Delhi in the memory of Dr. Karanth without charging any fees.
On the face of the provisions of the Copyright Act, 1957, we think that the principle laid down by the Canadian Court would be applicable in copyright of the judgments of the Apex Court.
Respondent filed a suit for declaration, injunction and damages alleging violation of the copyright in respect of the said dance vested in her in terms of the said Will stating that Dr. Karanth developed a new distinctive dance, drama troop or theatrical system which was named by him as 'Yaksha Ranga' which in his own words mean "creative extension of traditional Yakshagana" and, thus, the appellants infringed the copyright thereof by performing the same at New Delhi without obtaining her prior permission.
Directing the Defendants to pay to the plaintiff damages of Rs.15,000/- towards infringement of her copyright on account of stating or performing Abhimanyu Vadha on 18-9-2001 at New Delhi.
from staging or performing any of the above said 7 ballets or Prasangas or any parts thereof.
Neither of the two can be produced without the imaginative skill of the author.
For all these services, I hereby declare that after my death copyrights in respect of all my literary works shall vest with Smt.
Broadly speaking, a dramatic work may also come within the purview of literary work being a part of dramatic literature.
Indisputably, in view of the submissions made at the bar, respondent had acquired copyright in respect of seven Yakshagana Prasangas as also in respect of Yakshagana dramatic or theatrical form as a residuary legatee in terms of clause 12 of the Will dated 18.6.1994.
Dr. Rajiv Dhavan, learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of appellants in his usual fairness conceded: (i) The copyright in the literary work has been assigned by reason of the said Will in favour of the respondent in terms of clause 12 of the Will.
Copyright has nothing to do with originality or literary merit.
Section 52 of the Act provides for certain acts which would not constitute an infringement of copyright.
" 4. Plaintiff- Respondent, inter alia, prayed for passing a judgment and decree against the defendants - appellants granting the following reliefs: "1.
Similarly, appellant being an educational institution, if the dance is performed within the meaning of provisions of clause (i) of sub-section (1) of Section 52 of the Act strictly, the order of injunction shall not apply thereto also.
Section 2(o) defines "literary work" to include computer programmes, tables and compilations including computer databases.
Additions made in the form of the said dance including the Prasangas fell within the purview of 'originality' in respect whereof copyright could be claimed.
" Referring to the new Encyclopaedia Britannica and Halsbury's Laws of England, that a literary work with dramatic elements in it would also be literary work, the High Court observed: "Dramatic works also could contain in its, passages of great literary taste, as in the case of great plays of William Shakespear.
We, however, do not mean to suggest that any act of literary work will be outside the purview of the Will dated 18.6.1994.
Mr. G.V. Chandrashekhar, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent, on the other hand, would support the impugned judgment.
Plaintiff - respondent admittedly claimed copyright in respect of 'literary and artistic works' in her favour in terms of clauses 11 and 12 of the said Will dated 18.6.1994, which read as under: "11 Since I left the house 'suhasa' I have been living in a specially built house "Manasa" of Smt.
The court while passing such a decree, is obligated to consider the statutory provisions governing the same.
For the said purpose, it must be noticed as to what is a copyright and in respect of the matters the same cannot be claimed or otherwise the same is lodged by conditions and subject to statutory limitation.
Where the theme is the same but is presented and treated differently so that the subsequent work becomes a completely new work, no question of violation of copyright arises.
However, in the facts and circumstances of the case, there shall be no order as to costs.
[(2008) 1 SCC 1]2007 Indlaw SC 1341, this Court held: "The Copyright Act is not concerned with the original idea but with the expression of thought.
When a fair dealing is made, inter alia, of a literary or dramatic work for the purpose of private use including research and criticism or review, whether of that work or of any other work, the right in terms of the provisions of the said Act cannot be claimed.
The derivative work produced by the author must have some distinguishable features and flavour to raw text of the judgments delivered by the court.
To claim copyright in a compilation, the author must produce the material with exercise of his skill and judgment which may not be creativity in the sense that it is novel or non- obvious, but at the same time it is not a product of merely labour and capital.
