The ratio which applies in the case of the shareholders who acquire the right, title and interest of their predecessorsin-interest does not apply to the labour force and the fact that the shareholders get a dividend by transfer of funds from the reserves and undistributed profits of the previous years would not entitle the workers to demand bonus out of those funds if the working of the industrial concern during the particular year has resulted in a trading loss.
Appeal allowed.
(4) A return on the working capital at a lesser rate than the return on paid up capital.
An aggregate sum of Rs. 12,51,871-13-5 was thus brought into the balance sheet by these two transfers.
But in both cases it is something in addition to or in excess of that which is ordinarily received.
That Full Bench decision stands, and this tribunal and all other tribunals are bound by it.
19.  Mr. Isaacs, the learned counsel for the respondent,.
Bonus is not a deferred wage.
" 7.   This imports the conception of a boon, a gift or a gratuity otherwise described as an ex gratia payment.
It paid 24 3 per cent.
" 20.  This formula was reiterated in Textile Mills, M. P. Their Workmen, (1952) 2 L.L.J. 625; and Famous Cine Laboratory v. Their Workmen, (1953) 1 L.L.J. 466; and in the latter case it deprecated the idea of adjudicators importing considerations of social justice which were not comprised in that formula :- "And what is social justice ? Social justice is not the fancy of any individual adjudicator; if it were so then ideas of social justice might vary from adjudicator to adjudicator over all parts of India.
As a result of all these circumstances the appellant suffered a trading loss of Rs. 5,02,563-1-10.
(Vide Encyclopaedia Britannica, Volume III, page 856).
23.  The result therefore is that the decision of the Labour Appellate Tribunal appealed against must be reversed and that of the Industrial Court (Textiles and Hosiery), Kanpur, restored.
Because if it were so it would necessarily rank for precedence before dividends' The dividends can only be paid out of profits and unless and until profits are made no occasion or question can also arise for distribution of any sum as bonus amongst the employees.
(Vide Dhakeswari Cotton Mills Ltd. v. Commissioner of Income-tax, West Bengal 1954 Indlaw SC 213.
below those obtained in 1948.
" It also gives another meaning of the word bonus', viz:- "Increased compensation for services already rendered gratuitously or for a prescribed compensation where there is neither express or implied understanding that additional compensation may be granted.
Linking of bonus to dividend would obviously create difficulties.
The Oxford Concise Dictionary defines it as " something to the good, into the bargain (and as an example) gratuity to workmen beyond their wages".
But it nevertheless may also include, as here, payments made because legally due but which the parties contemplate will not continue indefinitely", and in National Association of Local Government Officers v. Bolton Corporation, [1943] A.C. 166, I87; "This payment, if made, cannot properly in my opinion be regarded as a mere gratuity.
" 11.   To a similar effect are the observations in Kenicott v. Supervisors of Wayne County, (1873) 83 U.S. 452 21 L., Ed. 319.
There was moreover indiscipline amongst the workers and production suffered.
8.   The word 'bonus' has however acquired a secondary meaning in the sphere of industrial relations.
It however observed: " But, in our opinion, that should not be the universal rule.
The appellant filed this appeal against that decision after obtaining special leave from this Court.
Indeed the Full Bench of the Labour Appellate Tribunal evolved the abovequoted formula with a view to dispensing social justice between the various parties concerned.
14.  The surplus that remained after meeting the aforesaid deductions would be available for distribution as bonus.
The balance which had been brought forward from the previous year was added thereto and a dividend of 243/4 per cent.
So, it would follow that if there is trading loss in the year under claim, bonus should not ordinarily be awarded.
It is usually intended as a stimulus to extra effort but sometimes represents the desire of the employer to share with his workers the fruits of their common enterprise.
"As at present advised a claim for bonus which had been rested on profits earned should ordinarily be determined on the basis of the profits earned in the year under claim and that the scale of bonus should be determined on the quantum of profits earned in the year.
There was a strike in the month of October and the mills were closed for nearly a month.
Social justice is a very vague and indeterminate expression and no clear-cut definition can be laid down which will cover all the situations.
10.   This position was recognised in Sutton v. Attorney-General , (1923) 39 T.L.R. 294, 297; where the Earl of Birkenhead observed "The term 'bonus' may of course be properly used to describe payments made of grace and not as of right.
The Conciliation Board by a majority decision repelled the contention of the appellant and awarded the payment of bonus at annas 4 per rupee.
The Pocket Part of the Corpus Juris Secundum, Volume XI, under the heading "As Compensation for Services" quotes the following passage from Attorney-General v. City of Woburn, 317 Mass. 465 :- "The word 'bonus' is commonly used to denote an increase in salary or wages in contracts of employment.
In our Full Bench decision (See 1950, 2 L.L.J. 1247), we carefully considered the question of social justice in relation to bonus, and there we equated the rights and liabilities of employers and workmen with a view to achieving a just formula for the computation of bonus.
Though there is an element of bounty in it the bounty, if granted, is given for good reasons of national policy............ I do not see why this does not fall within the definition of trade dispute just as much as a dispute as to the rate of wages or salary.
2.   During the year 1948 the appellant made a profit of Rs. 11,97,648-11-9.
It has been used especially in the United States of America to designate an award in addition to the contractual wage.
6.   The primary meaning of the word " bonus " according to the definition given in the New English Dictionary is:-" A boon or gift over and above what is nominally due as remuneration to the receiver and which is therefore something wholly to the good ".
The offer of a bonus is the means frequently adopted to secure continuous service from an employee to enhance his efficiency and to augment his loyalty to his employer and the employee's acceptance of the offer by performing the things called for by the offer binds employer to pay the bonus so called.
Considerations of social justice cannot be disregarded altogether, in relations between capital and labour.
No further claimed payment of bonus out of those reserves or undistributed profits can therefore survive.
It is thus defined by Webster. 'A premium given for a loan or a charter or other privilege granted to a company; as, the bank paid a bonus for its charter; a sum paid in addition to a stated compensation'.
This contention can be shortly answered by referring to our decision in Bharat Bank Ltd., Delhi v. Employees of the Bharat Bank Ltd., Delhi, (1950] S.C.R. 459 1950 Indlaw SC 48; where we held that the Industrial Tribunals were tribunals within the meaning of article 136 and further that article 136 has vested in this, Court exceptional and overriding power to interfere where it reaches the conclusion that a person has been dealt with arbitrarily or that a Court or tribunal within the territory of India has not given a fair deal to a litigant.
It adopted the following method of approach at page 1258 of that judgment :- "Our approach to this problem is motivated by the requirement that we should ensure and achieve industrial peace which is essential for the development and expansion of industry.
