The idol filed on the 20th November, 1950, cross-objections against the decree for Rs. 19,000 and interest thereon as also the dismissal of the suit in regard to the premises No. 40/2-A Grey Street.
What we find here in cl. 3 of the will is an absolute dedication of the premises No. 41 Grey Street to the idol as its permanent habitation with only the right given to the sevayats to reside in the said premises for the purposes of carrying on the daily and periodical seva and the festivals, etc., of the deity.
he position of the sevayat and the effect of his dealings with the property dedicated to the idol has been expounded by Rankin C.J. in Surendrakrishna Ray v. Shree Shree Ishwar Bhubaneshwari Thakuran, (1933) 60 Cal 54 1932 Indlaw CAL 59 "But, in the present case, we have to see whether the possession of two joint shebaits becomes adverse to the idol when they openly claim to divide the property between them.
But such persons have no legal duty to protect the endowment and, until the shebait is removed or controlled by the court, he alone can act for the idol.
It was further contended that Nagendra, by virtue of the award dated the 12th October, 1920, claimed to be absolutely entitled to the premises No. 41-A Grey Street and that his possession of the said premises thereafter became adverse which adverse possession continued for upwards of 12 years extinguishing the right of the idol to the said premises.
"The question whether the idol itself shall be considered the true beneficiary, subject to a charge in favour of the heirs or specified relatives of the testator for their upkeep, or that, on the other hand, these heirs shall be considered the true beneficiaries of the property, subject to a charge for the upkeep, worship and expenses of the idol, is a question which can only be settled by a conspectus of the entire provisions of the will": Pande Har Narayan v. Surja Kunwari, [1921] L. R. 48 I. A. 143, 145, 146 1921 Indlaw PC 56., 23.
No shebait can, so long as he continues to be the sevait, ever claim adverse possession against the idol.
Haricharan Dutt conveyed Ms one third share in the premises to them on the 4th March,1944, and Durga Charan Dutt conveyed his one-third share to them on the 3rd May, 1946.
The fact of their possession is in accordance with the idol's title, and the question is whether the change made by them, in the intention with which they hold, evidenced by an application of the rents and profits to their own purposes and other acts, extinguishes the idol's right.
On the 19th July, 1899, Rajendra made and published his last will and, testament whereby he confirmed the dedication made by Dwarka Nath with regard to premises Nos. 41 and 40/1 Grey Street and appointed his brother Jogendra the sole executor thereof.
By an order made by this court on the 24th May, 1953, the petition of the idol for filing cross-objections in this court was allowed to be treated as a petition for special leave to appeal against that part of the decree which was against it, subject to any question as to limitation.
He was no doubt a minor on the 24th November, 1910, when the terms of settlement were arrived at between the parties to the suit 1909.
41 Grey Street made by Dwarka Nath under the terms of his will was a. partial dedication, and that his sons Rajendra and jogendra and his widow Golap Sundari, who were appointed sevayats of the idol were competent to deal with premises No. 41 Grey Street after making the due provision for the idol as they purported to do by the terms of settlement, dated the 24th November, 1910.
The shebait for the time being is the only person competent to safeguard the interests of the idol, his possession of the dedicated property is the possession of the idol whose sevait he is, and no dealing of his with the property dedicated to the idol could afford the basis of a claim by him for adverse possession of the property against the idol.
The High Court rejected the said application stating that there was no rule allowing cross-objections in the Supreme Court.
The appellants filed on the 31st May, 1951, an application for leave to prefer an appeal to this court against the said judgment and decree of the High Court at Calcutta.
and Nagendra, then a minor, the three sons of Rajendra filed a suit, being Suit No. 969 of 1909,on the original side of the High Court at Calcutta against Jogendra, Golap Sundari and Padma Dassi, the widow of Sidheswar, another son of Rajendra, for the construction of the wills of Dwarka Nath and Rajendra, for partition and other reliefs.
The learned judge however dismissed the suit of the idol in regard to the premises No. 40/2-A Grey Street as, in his opinion, Sushilabala as executrix to her husband's estate and her two sons had acquired title to the said premises by adverse possession and the title of the idol thereto had been extinguished.
of the said Sri Issur Sridhar Jew Salagram Sila Thakur my said ,second wife Srimati Golap Moni Dasi, and 1st Sriman Rajendara Nath and 2nd, Sriman Jogendra Nath Ghose born of the womb of my first wife on living in the said house No. 41 Grey Street dedicated by me shall properly and agreeably to each other perform the sheba.
