That the petitioners had agreed to sponsor only 26 episodes whereas the respondents had agreed to produce 52 episodes and had given a firm commitment to that effect to Doordarshan as is clear from the letter dated 12 July 1984 sent by the respondents to Doordarshan.
1 to 4, respondents herein, for a declaration that the title and format of the suit serial "Yeh Jo Hai Zindagi" exclusively belonged to them and respondents Nos. 1 to 4 have no right thereto and for permanent injunction restraining the said respondents from making use of the title or episodes belonging to the petitioners or any episodes hereafter made.
That the respondents have not undertaken the production of the said serial at the instance of the petitioners.
Do the plaintiffs prove that the T.V.serial entitled "Yeh Jo Hai Zindagi" was produced by the defendant Nos. 1 to 4 as agents and (the said serial made by defendant Nos.
Since the letter was addressed to M/s Art Commercia in which the proposal was accepted for production of the serial and the first episode was to be sent for preview and approval which would be given only after seeing the recording of the first episode.
After examining the oral and documentary evidence on record it is disclosed that prior to letter sent on 11 July 1984 the petitioners were acquainted even with the format of the suit serial, they did not have any connection with the suit serial till that date and relied upon the wording used therein to the effect that "you and Mr. G.K. Pendharkar are requested to join Mr. Oberoi and his creative team when the format of the proposed half and hour sponsored programme shall be presented to you.
Do the plaintiffs prove that the entire serial rights including the excluding the exclusive right to use the title thereof, belong to the plaintiffs as alleged? 4.
In this special leave petition article 136 of the Constitution, the contentions raised before the High Court are reiterated particularly as to the effect of section 17 of the Copyright Act and whether the correspondence on record would not indicate that they were entitled to ownership and copyright in respect of the TV programme 'Yeh Jo Hai Zindagi'.
Strong reliance was placed upon certain circumstances, namely, that the format had been approved by the petitioners only on 11 July 1984 and PW-1 admitted that in view of the bill the entry claiming deduction made by the petitioners in their accounts in the financial year ending on 30 March 1984; that the amount was not to be paid for all 26 episodes or even thereafter in lump sum and the bill for 26 episodes enabled petitioners to claim deduction for the entire amount without actual payment in financial year 1983-84; that the entry made for the financial year 1983-84 was beneficial to the petitioners that there was no ceiling on advertising expenditure and it was introduced from 1 April 1984 onwards, the plaintiff did not produce the account books to show if the deduction in respect of the entire amount was claimed or not though they were repeatedly called upon to produce them.
The petitioners claimed that as a result of the employment of the respondent Nos. 1 to 4 and the finances paid by them the petitioners are the owners of the said serial "Yeh Jo Hai Zindagi" and the title thereof.
The High Court also noticed the circumstance of respondent No.2's name appearing as 'producer' in the titles of the suit serial and the petitioners did not do anything by way of protest or other objection or take steps to withhold payment of the respondents which in the normal course would have been done and, therefore, the explanation now sought to be offered by the petitioners in the form of a written protest was devoid of any substance.
The petitioners are also pioneers in making use of Doordarshan for advertising their products through the agency of the 1st respondent, approached the 1st respondent to act as their agents for the purpose of producing a serial which would be shown as petitioners' sponsored programme.
The trial court felt that it was addressed not to the petitioners but to the respondents alone.
We are not satisfied that the petitioners have made out a case for consideration by this Court.
However, the learned counsel for the petitioners made elaborate reference to the Income Tax Act, 1961 and the provisions whether such availment of benefit could be taken or not pursuant to the amendment effected to the provisions relating to computation of business income at different stages may not be very germane to the present case.
The petitioners though not required to do so, made an ex gratia payment to respondent Nos. 1 to 4 of a portion of the royalty received by them from the said M/s Esquire Distributing and Servicing Pvt. Ltd.. 1st and 2nd respondents had by their letter dated 14 December 1984 confirmed that the petitioners have all T.V. and video rights of the sponsored programme in Hindi "Yeh Jo Hai Zindagi" and vest with the petitioners.
The evidence was found to be inconsistent with the theory put forth by the petitioners that they are producers of the suit serial and, if it were to hold otherwise, the agreement or arrangement with the respondents was only for 26 episodes, whereas the sponsorship was for 52 episodes.
The High Court also examined the scope of section 17 of the Copyright Act and the ingredients thereof not having been established the High Court held that no claim could be based on the same and thus agreed with the findings recorded by the trial court and dismissed the appeal.
However, the petitioners were not interested in the same as they wanted the serial to project their products only exclusively and did not agree to any other products being tied up with the said serial.
Thus the profits or loss was of the respondents and there is element of liability to render account was missing and thus there was no question of respondents being the agents of the petitioners within the meaning of section 182 of the Indian Contract Act.
In these circumstances, the respondents contended that by entering into the said agreement of sponsorship, neither the petitioners nor the respondents created nor did they ever intend to create any relationship of employer and employee and/or master and servant or principal and agent between the petitioners on the one hand and the respondents No.1 to 4 on the other.
The trial court also noticed that in respect of both the advertisements and also in respect of suit serial the petitioners paid to the respondent Nos. 5 and 6 amount which was to be the maximum amount.
The suit serial was produced by the respondents as agents of the petitioners was false.
Thus the trial court proceeded to uphold the contentions raised on behalf of the respondents to dismiss the suit.
Further the said respondents had been recovering the cost of production well in advance of the serial episodes being actually produced.
Some time in May 1985, the 1st respondent proposed to the petitioners that some other products should be tied up with the serial "Yeh Jo Hai Zindagi".
The advertisements issued by the petitioners themselves in various newspapers to give wide publicity to the said serial would indicate that the serial mentioned these respondents' are the owners of the copyright in respect of the said serial and the petitioners claim in that behalf is devoid of any substance.
It was also on record that the Shri G.K. Pendharkar of the petitioners and respondent No. 2 had long standing relations with each other and they had already done a lot of advertising works for the petitioners before the production of the suit serial.
The trial court also relied on Exhibit C-1 which indicated that the respondents were submitting a format for the serial which was to be registered on behalf of the client M/s Vicco Laboratories.
After a number of meetings between the 2nd respondent and the concerned officers and the authorities of the respondents at Delhi in connection with the said proposal approved a pilot [i.e. the first episode as sample] on 19 September 1984 to produce a TV serial comprising 52 episodes subject of course to the 5th respondent discretion to discontinue the same if the same proved a flop before the expiry of the stipulated period.
That the courts below have refuted the claim of the petitioners that the bill dated 19 March 1984 establishes the fact that the production work had been started by the respondents at the behest of the petitioners.
The 2nd respondent then approached the 5th respondent through Doordarshan with his proposal to produce the said serial then proposed to be entitled "Mussibat Hai".
The facts emerging in the case indicate that the petitioners had joined the production of the suit serial after some concrete beginning had been made like recording of the title song, the conceiving of the title and format of the suit serial, etc.
The trial court found that the petitioners have not been able to prove that the TV serial "Yeh Jo Hai Zindagi" was produced by defendants Nos. 1 to 4 as agents in the course of their employment as the agent of the petitioners as contended in the suit.
After finalizing the proposal by the TV authorities, respondent No.2 asked the petitioners as to whether they were interested in the linking up their ads with the said serial.
