section 48 (1) envisages that subject to the provisions of Section 49, a person other than the registered proprietor of a trade mark may be registered as a "registered user" thereof in respect of any or all of the goods in respect of which the trade mark is registered otherwise than as defensive trade mark.
(2) permitted use of a trade mark shall be deemed to be use by the proprietor thereof.
According to the learned counsel, the respondents have collaboration agreement with Sen Raleigh which was taken over by the Government under IDR Act and the appellant came to manufacture, with the technical know-how supplied by the respondents, the Raleigh bicycles under the trade mark registered by the respondents in the register of the Registrar under the Act.
The High Court, in our view, declined, for good reasons, to rectify the trade mark under Section Act b) of the Act.
The discretion exercised by the Court must be judged in the light of the facts and circumstances, The appellant having used the trade mark, it does not lie in the mouth of the appellant to contend that he is not a permitted user or a bona fide user of the trade mark.
For over a long period, the trade mark was not used by the respondents as its registered proprietor.
Though there was a ban on impart of the Raleigh cycles manufactured outside India and passed off under the registered mark of the respondents as a registered proprietor, the circumstances do not attracted sub-section (3) of section 46 to relieve the respondents to establish non-user, but on the facts of this case, we have the admitted position that Sen Raleigh, admittedly, was a registered user through which the appellant had bona fide used the registered trade mark of the registered proprietor There is no discontinuance or non-use of the trade mark by the respondent to establish the special circumstances in this case.
It is seen that the appellant had not abandoned, at any point of time, the use of the trade mark of the respondent-registered proprietor till filing of the application.
On October 24, 1980, Sen Raleigh was nationalized and got vested in the appellant-Corporation by publication of the notification under IDR Act.
It is true, as held by this Court, that to get a trade mark registered without any intention to use it in relation to any goods but merely to make money out of it by selling it to others, the right to use it as a commodity would be trafficking in that trade mark.
In view of the prohibition to import bicycles, the respondent was prevented to use the trade mark but by collaboration agreement, it was continuing to use the trade mark by the permitted user.
Admitted position is that the respondent being the registered proprietor, until it is proved that its trade mark was not used to pass off the goods manufactured by the appellant and that the appellant had discontinued the user and 5 years lapsed thereafter, the non-use of the trade mark continues thereafter, the rectification application section 46 (1)(b) would be ordered.
Neither the appellant nor Sen Raleigh were registered users of the trade mark after November 1, 1976 section 48(2) of the Act up to the date of one month before filing that rectification application.
It would connect the registered proprietor and the user of the trade mark by the unregistered lincesee.
Though the appellant has not used the trade mark by itself since 1954 and after the expiry of the permitted use by Sen Raleigh until the notice was issued by the respondent directing the appellant not to use the trade mark, the appellant came to use the same in passing off bicycles manufactured by it under trade mark of the respondent.
The admitted facts are that the respondents through their agents had registered trade mark "Raleigh" and other trade marks (12 marks) under the Indian Merchandise Marks Act, 1889 (4 of 1989) and the Trade Marks Act, 1940 (5 of 1940).
The appellant cannot be said to be either the proprietor of the trade mark since 1976, since the agreement lapsed or permitted user-.
The operation of section 48(2) must be construed in such a way that the bona fide user even by a non- registered user, so long as there exist a rational connection between the proprietor of the trade mark and passes off the goods in the market manufactured by the appellant, is construed to be a bona fide user for and on behalf of the registered proprietor, namely, the respondents.
It means the use of the trade mark by a registered user of the trade mark in relation to good with which he is connected in the course of trade and in respect of which the trade mark remains registered for the time being and for which he is registered as a registered user and which complies with any conditions or restrictions to which the registration of the trade marks is subjected to.
The respondents did not prove that they were prevented to use the same for 5 years or more preceding the date of the application.
On April 24, 1954, Sen Raleigh was recorded as permitted users of the trade marks.
It would also be considered as a special circumstance for non user.
(2) of section 48 is referable to the permitted user or the registered user and it does not extend to unregistered permitted user, the Connecting link of passing off the goods between the licensor's trade mark and the lincesee should bona fide be with the permission or Consent which may be express or implied by long course of dealings.
It was, therefore, not a case of getting the trade mark registered under the Predecessor Act and continuing under the Act for trafficking of the trade mark.
In normal circumstances, when it is established that the trade mark was not used either by the registered proprietor or the permitted user, the public interest of supply of the quality of the goods marketed by the appellant should be taken into factual consideration for removal of the trade mark from the register.
It must, therefore, be duty of the registered proprietor to show What non-user was strictly due to the special circumstances of trade and not of any intention on the part of the registered proprietor not to use the trade mark during the relevant period.
Pursuant thereto, a company called Sen Raleigh Limited came into existence which manufactured cycles with technical assistance by the respondents-Raleigh Industries of U.K. and marketed the bicycles with a brand name and trade marks belonging to the respondents.
In view of the diverse contentions, the question arises: whether the High Court was right in refusing to rectify and strike off the trade marks of the respondents from the register of trade marks? section 46(1)(b) reads as under : "46.
It is not relevant for the purpose of section 46(1)(b) whether the bicycles were manufactured with the assistance of technical know-how passed on by Sen Raleigh or the permitted user.
The High Court refused to exercise the discretion to strike off the trade mark from the register.
It is true that while exercising discretion, the Court section 46 of the Act should take into consideration not only commercial interest of the parties but also public interest: In para 21.82 at page 386 of the law of Trade Marks and passing-off by P. Narayanan (4th Ed.), it is stated that the Court or the Registrar has discretion in granting or refusing an application for rectification.
The question then is: whether the discretion has been properly exercised by both the Division Bench as well the single Judge in refusing to take off the trade mark from the register by striking off trade mark from the register of the Registrar of Trade Marks? 16.
(3) of section 46 is not attracted to the facts in this case.
It is also not necessary to go into the question whether the application filed by the appellant section 48(1) and its pendency would be a special circumstance in favour of the respondent.
Although the special circumstances of trade taken by themselves would have prevented the use of the trade mark.
It must be shown that the non-use of the trade mark is due to special circumstances of the trade and not due to some other Cause which would have operated, whether the special Circumstances had arisen off not.
Then the burden shifts to the proprietor of the trade mark to affirmatively prove the special Circumstances for non-user of trade mark.
It appears that even an unregistered licensee, so long as there is unbroken Connection in the course of the trade between the licensor and the passing off lincesee's goods under the trade mark, there would be sufficient connection in the course of the trade between the proprietor and bona fide user of the trade mark by unregistered user.
There must be real trade connection between the proprietor of the trade and licensee of the goods and the intention to use the trade mark must exist at the date of the application for registration of trade mark and such intention must be genuine and bona fide and continue to subsist in order to disprove the charge of trafficking in trade mark.
The Court would not lend assistance to such registered proprietors of the trade mark.
The question, therefore, is: whether the appellant must be deemed to be bona fide user of the trade mark, though there was no agreement nor was it registered as permitted user section 48(1)? on admitted position and in the facts and circumstances, we are of the view that the appellant was a ago user of the trade mark of the respondent in passing off the bicycles under the trade mark of the respondent who, admittedly, is a registered proprietor.
It is not in dispute that till date of filing of the application, the appellant used the trade mark in passing off the bicycles under the trade mark of the respondent.
