In view of that statement, a submission was made on behalf of the first respondent that it may be permitted to withdraw the petition with liberty to file a fresh petition on the same cause of action.
12.  The core question which arises for our consideration is as to whether in the aforementioned facts and circumstances of the case, the application under section 46(1)(b) was maintainable.
(b) of Sub-s.
After the notice was served upon the respondent 1, a reply has been filed by M/s Thakural Mechanical Works bringing out there in that they are now the registered proprietors of said Trade Mark No.228867.
Both the appellant and the respondent No.1 were the infringers of the right of M/s. Jain Industries as it was the registered proprietor of the trade mark in respect of the goods in question, namely, centrifugal pumps.
Under section 46(1), it is proposed to clarify that the five years period will start from the date on which the trade mark is actually entered on the register.
The same is an assignable right in terms of section 36 of the Act, whereas an unregistered trade mark is not.
In these circumstances the request of the plaintiff is granted and petitioner is permitted to withdraw this petition and file a fresh petition on this very cause of action.
Opining that an application for rectification against the appellant within a period of seven and a half months from the date of assignment of the trade mark was not maintainable, the application was dismissed.
37.  The right of a registered trade mark is not lost automatically on the expiry of five years and one month.
15.  For the purpose of appreciation of the rival contentions, we may notice the findings of the Board as also the High Court.
Appellant's counsel appeared on that date and, inter alia, contended that presently it was the registered owner of the trade mark which was sought to be cancelled.
It is also proposed to increase the period from 1 to 3 months in cl. 47(1)(a) and (b) in which use of the trade mark, prior to the date of filing of the application for removal of the trade mark, shall be disregarded.
Section 56--Power to cancel or vary registration and to rectify the register--(1) On application made in the prescribed manner to a High Court or to the Registrar by any person aggrieved, the tribunal may make such order as it may think fit for cancelling or varying the registration of a trade mark on the ground of any contravention, or failure to observe a condition entered on the register in relation thereto.
24.  While we say so, we are not oblivious of the fact that trafficking in trade mark is to be discouraged.
An ex parte order of injunction was passed on 19.12.1985 against the defendant (appellant herein) to the following effect : "Notice for April 8, 1986.
" 14.  Indisputably, the scope of the provisions for removal from Register in terms of section 46 and 56 of the Act stand on different footings.
(c) The defendants shall maintain proper accounts of the sale of centrifugal pumps under the trade mark "Field Marshal" and shall file them in Court as and when directed.
21.  There cannot be any doubt or dispute that the registration of a trade mark confers a very valuable right.
A person who had been using the said trade mark as a proprietor thereof by user is supposed to keep itself abreast with such applications filed by another either for registration of the trade mark or renewal thereof.
(3) of section 12 to register an identical or nearly resembling trade mark in respect of the goods in question or where the tribunal is of opinion that he might properly be permitted so to register such a trade mark, the tribunal may refuse an application u/cl.
M/s. Jain Industries got itself registered and obtained periodical renewal thereof as is required under the Act.
In the suit, only the competing right of the first respondent qua the appellant can be determined and not a right against M/s. Jain Industries.
26.  It must, however, be observed that whether a use is for bona fide purpose would essentially be a question of fact.
The learned Judge directed recording of statements of the learned counsel in this behalf; pursuant whereto the same were recorded which reads as under : "C.O.9 of 1986 Mr. Singh has filed a reply in this petition bringing out that presently he is the registered owner of the trademark which is sought to be cancelled in this petition.
" 20.  The terms also may bring within its umbrage the entire period of five years or more irrespective of the fact as to whether the registered proprietor was one or more than one as has been held by the High Court.
Whether the registered proprietor of the trade mark had taken recourse to trafficking or not must be determined in an appropriate proceeding.
In the case of American Home Products Corporation v. Mac Laboratories Pvt. Ltd. Rendered under the 1958 Act, it was held by the Supreme Court that "the person seeking to have the trade mark removed from the register has only to prove such continuous non-user.
Such a right cannot be determined in a proceeding under section 46(1)(b) of the Act which is restricted to non-user of the registered trade mark.
The High Court on the other hand opined: "It was not anybody's case before us that M/s Jain Industries the registered proprietor of the trademark used it at all.
The cause of action therefor was stated to have arisen in the following circumstances : "That the cause of action for the present petition arose in favour of the petitioner and against the respondents in the month of January 1987 when the respondent informed this Hon'ble Court that they have been recorded as subsequent proprietors of the impugned registered trade mark No.228867 in Class 7 in C.O. No.9 of 1986, whereupon the petitioner withdrew the said earlier petition C.O. No.9 of 1986 with permission of the court to file the present petition, because of the changed circumstances.
An appeal was preferred there against.
Prima facie, therefore, appellant has been held to be the registered owner of the trade mark.
A trade mark which is not used within five years of its registration, becomes liable for removal either completely or in respect of those goods or services for which the mark has not been used.
In view of this situation learned counsel for the petitioner has submitted that he may be permitted to withdraw this petition with permission to file a fresh petition on this very cause of action after impleading M/s Thakural mechanical Works etc.
(2) The permitted use of a trade mark shall be deemed to be used by the proprietor thereof, and shall be deemed not to be used by a person other than the proprietor, for the purposes of section 46 or for any other purpose for which such use is material under this Act or any other law.
At the time of grant of original registration, advertisements are issued and objections are called for.
First Respondent withdrew the application against M/s. Jain Industries.
The cause of action which permitted the first respondent to file an application for rectification against M/s. Jain Industries was non-user thereof by it.
Such an application may be maintainable in terms of section 56 of the Act but strictly not in terms of section 46(1)(b) thereof and that too in the absence of the original registered proprietor.
As a person obtains a right on and from the date of registration and/or renewal thereof, he can ordinarily be deprived of his right unless it is shown that the assignment thereof by his holder was not a bona fide one or had been made by way of camouflage.
39.  Our attention has again been drawn to a passage from 'Law of Trade marks & Geographical Indications' by Shri K.C. Kailasam, wherein the judgment of the Tribunal has been criticized in the following terms : "From the above legislative intent, it would seem that the period of non-use of the trade mark is to be reckoned continuously from the date of its registration.
