24.
It was also held that the respondents Nos. 1 to 4 are entitled to deny the ownership of the petitioners of the film "Yeh Jo Hai Zindagi in view of Exhibits A, B and E produced in the case.
Contractd with Esquire Distributing & Servicing Pvt. Ltd." 20.
Contracts with Doordarshan.
The petitioners had employed the respondent Nos.1 to 4 as their advertising agents through the petitioners' sister concern "M/s Modern Advertising Agency" and "Uta Advertising Agency" and were dealing with the respondent No.1 mainly through the petitioners Managing Director, G.K.Pendharkar.
To what relief, if any, are the plaintiffs entitled? 12.
Relying upon this letter emphasis was laid on the words "produced by sponsors" .
The change in the title from 55th episode "for Vicco Laboratories" was introduced.
3 & 4 are proprietary concerns of respondent No.2.
Though original agreement was to have 27 episodes but having regard to the popularity of the programme the petitioners decided to increase the said serial to 52 episodes and by a letter dated 22 April 1985 the petitioners informed respondent Nos. 1 and 2 that in the title of the 27th and 28th episodes it has been stated that it is presented by "Oberoi Films".
Petition dismissed.
The bills of cost of production.
That letter had been addressed to respondent No. 1, M/s Art Commercia.
10.
14.
It is clear from the findings recorded by the trial court and the appellate court: "1.
15.
As against the regular rates/charge of Rs.3,24,000/- for display of advertisements on TV of such advertisers for 120 seconds per telecast, the relevant time, at the rate of Rs.35,000/- only for 120 seconds in addition to the royalty or consideration payable to the producers of such films or serials which invariably was far less than the difference between the usual rates and concession rates of advertisements.
17.
Their contention was that there was a protest from the petitioners and as a result thereof this change took place.
19.
18.
The 2nd respondent made extensive study and research and prepared a format of the proposed serial.
16.
Is the suit not maintainable against defendant No. 5 for failure to give notice u/s 80 of CPC? 9.
23.
8.
6.
5.
4.
3.
2.
21.
5.
4.
3.
2.
9.
8.
7.
6.
5.
4.
3.
2.
1.
We have carefully considered the contentions urged on behalf of the petitioners.
" 22.
11.The respondents strongly contended that the serial "Hum Log" was produced by the petitioners in collaboration with M/s Concept Advertisers.
Apart from raising the question of valuation of the suit and the pecuniary jurisdiction of the court to try the same they also raised question that the petitioners are not the owners of the copyright in the said serial within the meaning of section 17 of the Copyright Act, 1957 and the copyright in respect of the said serial belongs and vests with the respondent Nos. 1 to 4.
Whether two capacities "sponsor" and "producer" can co- exist in one and the same person or not has been examined and the trial court noted that the wording had been borrowed from the Tariff Card and Tariff Card also indicated what are the categories of the advertisers and rates thereof.
These ad-films and jingles fetched handsome returns for the petitioners and boosted their sales beyond their own expectations.
In the course of his business the 2nd respondent has developed contacts and connections with important and renowned personalities, artists, technicians etc.
In course of time, the 2nd respondent and partners of the petitioners especially G.K.Pendharkar came very close to each other and developed very intimate relations.
The 2nd respondent undertook the preliminary project work on his own without loss of any time.
Respondents Nos.
in the film industry.
The respondents were not liable to render accounts to the petitioners who paid them a fixed sum for sponsoring the programme.
The respondents on 27 December 1985 alleged that they were losing Rs.50,000/- to Rs.75,000/- per episode and indicated that they wanted to get a new sponsor.
Therefore, it was submitted that the suit lacked cause of action.
What order?" 13.
It has been proved that the said bill was ante-dated and raised by the respondents in July, 1984 ostensibly for the purpose of benefiting the petitioners for their obtaining tax concessions.
A number of averments germane to this case as set out in the plaint are set out hereunder: The petitioners carried on business as manufacturers of ayurvedic pharmaceuticals products, which were sold under the brand name of "Vicco" and have acquired substantial reputation in the market.
Does the suit suffer from non-joinder of necessary parties? 8.
Letters dated 14 December 1984 and 15 November 1985.
Therefore, it cannot be said that there is any communication between the same.
That the evidence of Mr. S.S.Gill, who gave evidence on behalf of the Information & Broadcasting Ministry that he was not acquainted with Mr. Pendharkar and that Doordarshan had no direct connection with the petitioners but only with the respondents as producers or the Director stood un-impeached.
On these grounds, the respondents contended that the suit of the petitioners is misconceived, malicious and baseless and is liable to be dismissed.
If the documents are interpreted that the petitioners are the sponsors as well as the producers it would lead to absurd results.
About 18 years ago before filing of the suit, the respondents came into contact with the petitioners initially as clients in connection with the job of advertisement of their products on All India Radio, theatre and films and later, on television.
The explanation given by the petitioners that they were busy in the shootings did not carry much weight with the High Court.
The respondents contended that on no occasion the petitioners acted as a producer and even the contract was signed by the petitioners as an Advertiser and by the respondent No. 1 as an approved agent.
In 1984, Doordarshan in order to popularize sponsored serial, undertook the production of a serial by the name "HUMLOG".
" That was the first occasion when the format was presented to the petitioners.
12.
The entire cost of the spade work and the cost of the title song was borne exclusively by the respondents and nothing was contributed by the petitioners in this regard.
Therefore, the view taken by the courts below in this regard appears to be correct.
Do the defendant Nos. 1 to 4 prove that it was intended between the parties that copyrights in respect of the said film should vest exclusively with the defendants or that the right of ownership was waived by the plaintiffs? 7.
If the expenses were less, the petitioners did not ask for a refund and the profit or loss was entirely of the respondents.
It is clear that the bills that have been raised were only to accommodate the petitioners from the circumstances narrated above.
However, the titles continued to show Mr. S.S.Oberoi as the producer of the serial and the petitioners did not withhold payments.
The respondent Nos. 1 to 4 in their written statement contested the suit.
The learned counsel for the petitioners strongly relied upon the following documents: "1.
Either at the end of 1983 or early part of 1984, the 5th respondent through the said Doorsarshan decided to introduce the production of films or serials especially for exhibitions on TV instead of exhibiting/telecasting films produced by the professional film producers on payment of exorbitant royalty to them, partly as an economy measure and partly to provide avenues to and exposure new talents.
Consistently with the said intention further, the master cassette of the said serial at all relevant times remained exclusively with the respondents and not with the petitioners and the petitioners paid to the respondents 50% of the royalty received from M/s Esquire Distributing and Servicing Pvt. Ltd. under the agreement dated 1 Januray 1985, 04 March 1985 and 16 September 1985.
Inasmuch as the respondents could not claim any amount at random, details regarding expenditure were included in the bills and therefore it is the sponsor's price for sponsoring the suit serial.
In the year 1967, the 2nd respondent's wife Mrs. Sunanda section Oberoi started the proprietary business of advertising agency in the name and style of Art Commercial and the 2nd respondent used to work in various capacities for the said firm.
The cost estimate.
The petitioners reserved their right to sue for damages in terms of Order II, Rule 2 CPC.
The 2nd respondent is a Director and/or partner of the 1st respondent and has mainly dealt with the petitioners on behalf of the 1st respondent.
It was, therefore, found that there was no copy right attached to any idea, but copy right is attached to the work and what is important is that not only the idea of producing the suit serial on TV came to the mind of respondent No. 2 but he had already started working on it in advance and forwarded it to Doordarshan for its approval.
Thus we find absolutely no merit in this petition.
The matter rests purely upon the appreciation of evidence on record and does not give rise to any question of such importance as to be decided by this Court article 136 of the Constitution.
The trial court raised as many as 12 issues and they are as follows: "1. "Is it proved that this Court has no pecuniary jurisdiction to entertain and try this suit? 2.
