Permanent employee has been divided in two categories (i) who had been appointed against a clear vacancy in one or more posts as probationers and otherwise; and (ii) whose name had been registered at muster roll and who has been given a ticket of permanent employee.
It is also not in dispute that the Respondent- Authority has been constituted under Madhya Pradesh Nagar Tatha Gram Nibesh Adhiniyam, 1973 (Adhiniyam); section 47 whereof mandates that all appointments to the posts of officers and servants included in the State cadre mentioned in Section 76-B of the Development Authority Services must be made by the State Government and the appointments to the posts of officers and servants included in the local cadre in the said services by the concerned Town and Country Development Authority.
The Labour Court in absence of any pleadings or any proof as regard application of the 1961 Act and the 1963 Rules had proceeded on the basis that they would become permanent employees in terms of Order 2(ii) and 2(vi) of the Annexure appended thereto.
Before the High Court as also before us, the Appellants have produced a large number of documents which were not filed before the Labour Court.
A dispute arose as to whether all the Appellants were employed for the purpose of the said project or the Appellants in Civil Appeal No.337 of 2002 were appointed in the year 1991 by the Authority for its own job.
A distinction is sought to be made by Dr. Dhawan that out of them 27 had been appointed to a project and not in a project.
[2004 AIR SCW 5476] 2004 Indlaw SC 829, this Court observed : "In such a factual background, in our opinion, the Industrial Court or the High Court could not have drawn an adverse inference for the non-production of the Muster Rolls for the year 1990 to 1992 in the absence of specific pleading by the respondents-applicants that at least during that period they had worked for 240 days continuously in a given year.
As noticed hereinbefore, the High Court's observation remained unchallenged, that the project was to be financed by ODA.
The Respondent-Authority appointed the Appellants and posted them to an overseas project known as 'Indore Habitat Project' which was implemented through the agency of 'Overseas Development Authority' (hereinafter referred to as 'the ODA'), on daily wages @ Rs.63/- per day for the Degree holders and Rs.52.50 per day for the Diploma holders.
STATUTORY PROVISIONS : section 2(2) of the 1961 Act reads as follows : "Nothing in this Act shall apply to the employees in an undertaking to whom the Fundamental and Supplementary Rules, Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, Civil Services (Temporary Service) Rules, Revised Leave Rules, Civil Service Regulations or any other rules or regulations that may be notified in this behalf by the State Government in the official Gazette apply.
(1) of Section 6, the State Government may, by notification, apply Standard Standing Orders to such class of undertakings and from such date as may be specified therein.
As regard application of the doctrine of 'equal pay for equal work', it was held to be not applicable as the Appellants were not entitled to 'absorption' or 'classification' in terms of the 1961 Act and the 1963 Rules.
Having regard to the rules which have been made by the appellant-Corporation, regular appointment on the post of medical officer can only be made after the duly constituted Selection Committee has found the person suitable for such appointment.
The burden was on the Appellants to establish that they had a right to invoke the said doctrine in terms of article 14 of the Constitution of India.
The terms of conditions of service contained in the 1973 Act and the 1987 Rules are not in derogation of the provisions contained in schedule appended to the 1961 Act.
Placing reliance on several documents which have come into existence at a subsequent stage, Dr. Dhawan would contend that vacancies in fact had arisen after passing of the judgment of the High Court and, thus the services of the Appellants should be regularized there against.
For the purpose of this matter, we would proceed on the basis that the 1961 Act is a special statute.
It was further contended that as the Respondents despite direction to produce documents including the offers for appointment did not produce the same, an adverse inference should have been drawn against them by the High Court.
The maintenance job upon completion thereof had been taken over by Indore Municipal Corporation.
Had the letters of appointment been issued, the Appellants themselves could have produced the same.
Despite the same the High Court went into the question of applicability of the said Act and held that the 1961 Act and the 1963 Rules had no application.
The Standing Orders governing the terms and conditions of service must be read subject to the Constitutional limitations wherever applicable.
No notification has been brought to our notice that the Standard Standing Orders had been made applicable to the Appellants.
The posts of Sub Engineers in which the Appellants were appointed, it is nobody's case, were sanctioned ones.
They having come to learn that certain vacancies exist in the Respondent- Authority, applied therefor although no advertisement in that behalf was issued.
It was, in fact, held that as the Petitioners therein were not regularized in accordance with the prescribed rules and regulations for regular appointments, their services had to be terminated and as such there had been neither any arbitrary nor illegal action on the part of the respondents nor any violation of the Fundamental Rights guaranteed under articles 14 and 16.
It appears that there existed a scheme for regularization and some directions were issued in terms thereof.
It was urged that there does not exist any controversy that ODA was to continue before 30.6.1997 and as such the Appellants could not have been absorbed by the Respondent authority.
All the employees have been working in the establishment of the Respondents for last 5-6 years.
Work has been taken by the Respondent from all the Appellants except four. 5.
The statute, rules and regulations formed by the State govern the terms and conditions of service of the employees of the Respondent.
The said order is not an 'offer of appointment' by any sense of term.
The 1973 Act or the rules framed there under do not provide for appointments on ad hoc basis or on daily wages.
The so-called seniority list which is contained in Annexure P-27, whereupon strong reliance has been placed by Dr. Dhawan merely itself goes to show that it was prepared in respect of office muster employees.
The learned counsel would submit that the sufficient materials were brought on records to show that vacancies were available and as the Appellants worked for a period of more than six months, they became permanent employees in terms of the Act.
As regard the claim of 'equal pay for equal work', the learned counsel would urge that the High Court has failed to consider the same in its true perspective.
The High Court, in our opinion, was right in arriving at the conclusion that the Appellants were not entitled to be regularized in service.
In A Umarani 2004 Indlaw SC 606 (supra), this Court held that once the employees are employed for the purpose of the scheme, they do not acquire any vested right to continue after the project is over.
Dr. Dhawan is not correct in his submission that a separate ticket need not be issued and what was necessary was merely to show that the Appellants had been recognized by the State as its employees having been provided with employment code.
The 1973 Act, as noticed hereinbefore, clearly mandates that all posts should be sanctioned by the State Government and all appointments to the said cadre must be made by the State Government alone.
HIGH COURT JUDGMENT : The High Court accepted the contention of the Respondent-Authority that the Appellants were not appointed against the sanctioned posts and their services were taken on account of the said ODA Project which was implemented through the agency of the Respondent-Authority.
We have referred to the said fact only for the purpose of showing that it would not be correct to contend that the Appellants had no access to the said documents.
vis-a-vis the 1973 Act and the rules framed thereunder.
A 'ticket of permanent employee' was, thus, required to be issued in terms of Order 3 of the Standard Standing Orders.
The appointments of the Appellants were, therefore, void ab initio being opposed to public policy as also violative of articles 14 and 16 of the Constitution of India.
