Further the proved circumstances must be consistent only with the hypothesis of the guilt of the accused and totally inconsistent with his innocence....".
20.  Law is well settled that the prosecution while relying upon the confessional statement leading to discovery of articles under Section 27 of the Evidence Act, has to prove through cogent evidence that the statement has been made voluntarily and leads to discovery of the relevant facts.
10.  It has been consistently laid down by this Court that where a case rests squarely on circumstantial evidence, the inference of guilt can be justified only when all the incriminating facts and circumstances are found to be incompatible with the innocence of the accused or the guilt of any other person.
(a) The death is homicidal; (b) The accused was in need of money to chase mathematics paper and for the aforesaid purpose he has killed the deceased to take away the valuable articles like computer and gold ornaments to sell such articles in the market.
21.  At one time it was held that the expression "fact discovered" in the section is restricted to a physical or material fact which can be perceived by the senses, and that it does not include a mental fact, now it is fairly settled that the expression "fact discovered" includes not only the physical object produced, but also the place from which it is produced and the knowledge of the accused as to this, as noted in Pulukuri Kottaya's case 1946 Indlaw PC 23 (supra).
(4) The person giving the information must be accused of any offence.
8.  Learned counsel for the respondent on the other hand supported the judgment of the High Court.
25.  In Rammi alias Rameshwar v. State of Madhya Pradesh (AIR 1999 SC 3544 1999 Indlaw SC 1512) the scope and ambit of Section 27 of the Evidence Act was analysed in great detail and it was concluded in para 12 as follows: " True, such information is admissible in evidence under Section 27 of the Evidence Act, but admissibility alone would not render the evidence, pertaining to the above information, reliable.
LJ 1104 1992 Indlaw SC 107), it was pointed out that great care must be taken in evaluating circumstantial evidence and if the evidence relied on is reasonably capable of two inferences, the one in favour of the accused must be accepted.
Ex.P-6 is the statement leading to recovery of Travel bags (M.Os. 2 & 3), knife (.M.0.5), wooden log (M.0.28), rubber gloves (M.0.29 series) cotton rope with human hair (MN.O.30 series), two sponges soaked with blood (M.0.31 series), bloodstained blue clolour jean pant (M.0.32), bloodstained white banian (M.0.33), colour banian (M.0.34), bloodstained grey colour pant (M.0.35), bloodstained pillow (M.0.36), plastic bucket (M.0.37) from the house of P.W.3.
Information as to past user or the past history, of the object produced is not related to his discovery in the setting in which it is discovered.
Moreover, all the circumstances should be complete and there should be no gap left in the chain of evidence.
If this is the statement of P.W.22 recorded under Section 164 of the Code a witness in whose presence the confessional statement leading to discovery of articles from the house of Hajeeali, P.W.3 had been made, it raises serious doubt regarding the voluntariness of the statement.
The knife did not contain any bloodstain.  Therefore, the aspect relating to recovery of articles from the house of P.W.3 and his mother cannot be considered as a link to complete the chain of circumstantial evidence.
On the basis of the statement of the accused, prosecution discovered many materials including a knife and a log allegedly used for killing.
(AIR 1990 SC 79 1989 Indlaw SC 31), it was laid down that when a case rests upon circumstantial evidence, such evidence must satisfy the following tests: "(1) the circumstances from which an inference of guilt is sought to be drawn, must be cogently and firmly established; (2) those circumstances should be of a definite tendency unerringly pointing towards guilt of the accused; (3) the circumstances, taken cumulatively should form a chain so complete that there is no escape from the conclusion that within all human probability the crime was committed by the accused and none else; and (4) the circumstantial evidence in order to sustain conviction must be complete and incapable of explanation of any other hypothesis than that of the guilt of the accused and such evidence should not only be consistent with the guilt of the accused but should be inconsistent with his innocence.
22.  The various requirements of the section can be summed up as follows: (1) The fact of which evidence is sought to be given must be relevant to the issue.
As a matter of fact, P.W.9 who was examined on the very date when police started investigation did not inform the police that she had seen the accused coming down from upstairs or that the accused had threatened her.
It was also pointed out that the circumstances relied upon must be found to have been fully established and the cumulative effect of all the facts so established must be consistent only with the hypothesis of guilt.
(7) Thereupon only that portion of the information which relates distinctly or strictly to the fact discovered can be proved.
v. State of A.P. (1996) 10 SCC 193 1996 Indlaw SC 3059, wherein it has been observed thus: "In a case based on circumstantial evidence, the settled law is that the circumstances from which the conclusion of guilt is drawn should be fully proved and such circumstances must be conclusive in nature.
P-6, P-8 and P-10 dated 26-4-2003, were made before P.W.40 in the presence of P.W.22 and C.W.1.
6 to 17) from the house of P.W.15, a classmate of the accused.
So far as the first confession statement made before P.W.40 is concerned, admittedly the accused was under physical custody, at that time, whereas at the time of last confession stated to have been made before P.W.42, the accused was on bail and he had been summoned by P.W.42 for further examination and, therefore, technically in custody.
The trial court found that the prosecution version rested on circumstantial evidence.
(c) At the time of occurrence, only the accused, deceased and PW 9 were available in the premises and there was no other person.
The appeal is dismissed.
35.  When the judgment of the High Court is analysed in the background of what has been stated by this Court as regards circumstantial evidence, the inevitable conclusion is that the impugned judgment of the High Court does not suffer from any infirmity to warrant interference.
34.  Law is well settled that when the prosecution relies upon circumstantial evidence, all the links in the chain of circumstances must be complete and should be proved through cogent evidence.
It is of course true that the prosecution has tried to exonerate P.W.1 by adducing evidence through P.Ws. 36 and 39 to the effect that immediately after recovery of the dead body, P.W.40 had taken two such keys, thus contradicting the alleged confession of P.W.1.  However, the very suspicious role of P.W.40, who apparently was in possession of at least two keys of the same lock creates suspicion regarding recovery of another key after 5 months.
