It is further contended that though decision was taken to give 50 per cent quota to the promotees, the statutory rules have not been made.
There will be an interim order in the following terms: (i) Fifty per cent of the total intake in the petitioners' educational institutions shall be permitted to be filled up by candidates selected by the agencies of the State Government on the basis of a competitive examination/test.
The seniority of the promotee Asstt.
By order dated October 7, 19933 the Constitution Bench having regard to the fact that the year 1993 being a year of transition and adjustment and also in view of the orders of the Government of India permitting admission of foreign students to the extent of as much as 50% of the seats as well as the time that had already elapsed, permitted the private professional colleges to admit non-resident Indians and foreign students up to a maximum extent of 15% of the intake capacity of that year i.e. 1993, with the direction that the basis of the said selection would be as indicated in order dated May 14, 19934 on the basis of merit leaving to the management of the college T.M.A.Pai Foundation v. State of Karnataka,(1993) 4SCC276 2002 Indlaw SC 2264 ,Unnikrishnan, J.P. v. State of A.P., (1993) 4 SCC 111 1993 Indlaw SC 1168 concerned to adjudge the merit of these candidates having regard to the relevant factors.
However, the selection shall be made strictly on the basis of merit among the candidates seeking admission to the institutions.
This information should be furnished to the competent authority, to the University to which the said colleges are affiliated and to the Secretary, Education Department, Government of Karnataka/Tamil Nadu.
In these contempt petitions the promotees as well as some of the subsequent direct recruits complain against fixation of their inter se seniority by the State Government.
284 of 1993 and 482 of 19932 : "Having regard to the above circumstances, we permit the petitioners In the above two writ petitions to admit students to their colleges on the basis of entrance test conducted by them and on the same basis on which admissions were made by them in the said colleges in the previous academic year.
As and when the temporary posts are converted either into permanent posts or the vacancies arise due to superannuation of the senior officers, they should be fixed in the respective vacancies and fitment made.
We have to consider, therefore, whether the procedure adopted by the Sate to determine the inter se seniority is in accordance with the rules and the law laid down in K. C Joshi case'.
in educational institutions which are claimed to be Minority Educational Institutions, the petitioners have questioned the applicability of the scheme framed by this Court in J.P. Unni Krishnan v. State of A. P. (1993) 1 SCC 645 1993 Indlaw SC 1056 I as well as the applicability of the rules and orders made by several State Governments on the basis of the said decision.
Conservators, Forest are awaiting appointment to substantive vacancies.
The State Government is directed to undertake fresh exercise in the light of the above directions and complete the same within a period of four months from the date of the receipt of the order.
After this exercise is exhausted; appointments should be made; posts are to be filled up to substantive vacancies.
Therefore, the procedure to be adopted by the State in fixing the inter se seniority of the direct recruits and the promotees in their respective quota is the sole question.
In respect of the seats which are left for management to fill in its discretion, merit shall be the guiding principle.
The claim of being a "minority" - whether based on religion or language - and the claim of being a "Minority Educational Institution" put forward by the petitioners cannot be pronounced upon without first ascertaining what the said expressions connote and signify.
As per Rules 5 and 24 only permanent posts should be counted as substantive posts and temporary posts cannot be counted for fixation of the seniority.
The permanent posts are 102 and temporary posts are 173 and the total would come to 275.
Therefore, the operative rule as on that date appears to be 33 1/3 per cent in respect of promotees.
" We have heard learned counsel for the parties and we are of the view that except for the Minority Educational Institutions in Kerala which are governed by the terms of the agreements with the Government of Kerala, the directions given by this Court with regard to admissions for the academic session 1993 can continue and govern admissions for the next academic session commencing in 1994.
It is made clear that any violation of the directions given herein by the petitioners shall entail serious consequences inasmuch as the above orders are made based upon their representations and even before a counter- affidavit has been filed by the respective respondents in view of the urgency expressed by them.
The NRIS, if any admitted to an extent not exceeding 5% of the total seats shall be out of the payment seats to be filled under After completing the admissions each of the colleges, shall submit to the competent authority, to the University to which it is affiliated and to the Government concerned statements containing full particulars of the students admitted under cl.
Conservators, Forest shall be counted from the respective dates of appointment to the substantive posts in their quota under Rule 6 of the rules.
In the order dated August 18, 1993, the following directions were given in respect of the institutions covered by the aforesaid Writ Petitions Nos.
It was directed that the order dated May 14, 1993, would not apply to educational institutions falling in categories (4) and (5) and the institutions referred to in paragraph 18 of the order dated August 18, 1993.
In this context, we would like to impress upon the managements of the institutions concerned that while assessing the merit of a candidate for admission the objective should be to promote the excellence of the institution as a vehicle of general secular education.
(iv) Insofar as non-resident Indians and foreign students are concerned, the permissible limit would be only 5% of the total intake for a given year as per the direction contained in paragraph 6 of the order dated May 14, 1993 as modified by order dated August 18, 19932.
Such merit shall be determined oh the basis of the academic performance at the qualifying examination; or on the basis of any objective test that the institution might itself apply to determine such relative and competing merits; or on the basis of performance of the results of the selection tests that the State Government may itself hold for selecting candidates for admission to technical colleges in the State.
In the light of the background scenario, we cannot strictly take it to be a case of contempt but in working out the directions issued by this Court, the State Government committed a mistake in law.
As on December 1, 1980, 186 posts, namely, 140 and 46 posts created during the period were available.
On so determining, the direct recruits would go en block as seniors to the promotees and the promotee officers in the order of their inter se seniority be appointed by the Governor under Rule 5(b) read with Rule 6 and would be placed below the direct recruits.
In K.C. Joshi case' it was concluded that the promotees were appointed on ad hoc basis as a stop-gap arrangement in 7ubstantive posts.
There are only two private engineering colleges in the State, said to be Minority Educational Institutions.
The promotees, therefore, are entitled to 50 per cent of the posts.
This order shall, however, not estop the petitioners from urging all other contentions raised in the writ petitions, as, indeed, this interim interlocutory order is made on the consent of the petitioners and without prejudice to all the contentions.
On December 1, 1986, 40 more posts were created.
Petition disposed of
It would be open to the State Government to fix tentatively the inter se seniority in the temporary posts according to the ratio between the direct recruits and the promotees in the same manner of filling the substantive posts as indicated above.
The officers, he they direct recruits or promotees would rank below the juniormost officer in the list of the previous year.
The seniority shall be determined in accordance with the quota rule to the posts available in the respective years in which the vacancies had arisen otherwise existing substantive posts should be filled up applying Rule 6.
If the temporary posts are likely to continue for long, normally, as per the law laid down by this Court, they be treated, for the purpose of counting seniority, as permanent posts unless they are likely to be abolished.
It is clear from the counter-affidavit filed by the State that the posts are both permanent and temporary.
Indisputably a decision was taken on March 1, 1975 to increase the quota to 50 per cent but no amendment to the statutory rules to give effect to it was made.
Prior to December 31, 1974, the quota was 75 per cent to the direct recruits and 25 per cent to the promotees.
