(3) of Section 29; that the invention so far as claimed in any claim of the complete specification is claimed in a claim of a complete specification published on or after the priority date of the applicant's claim and filed in pursuance of an application for a patent in India, being a claim of which the priority date is earlier than that of the applicant's claim; a. that the invention so far as claimed in any claim of the complete specification was publicly known or publicly used in India before the priority date of that claim.
Section 117G of the  principal Act was substituted vide Patents (Amendment) Act, 2005.
Opposition to grant of patent: (1) At any time within four months from the date of advertisement of the acceptance of a complete specification under this Act (or within such further period not exceeding one month in the aggregate as the Controller may allow on application made to him in the prescribed manner before the expiry of the four months aforesaid) any person interested may give notice to the Controller of opposition to the grant of the patent on any of the following grounds, namely: a. that the applicant for the patent or the person under or through whom he claims, wrongfully obtained the invention or any part thereof from him or from a person under or through whom he claims; b. that the invention so far as claimed in any claim of the complete specification has been published before the priority date of the claim i. in any specification filed in pursuance of an application for a patent made in India on or after the 1st day of January, 1912; or ii.
According to the appellant, under the amended section 25 on rejection of "pre- grant opposition" it was open to respondent no.3 to move an application opposing grant of patent under section 25(2).
On that date, the amended Section 117A, suggested by Patents (Amendment) Act, 2005, was not brought into force.
Therefore, the Legislature intended an appeal under Section 117A(2) to the Appellate Board from any decision, order or direction of the Controller, inter alia, under section 25(4) [which refers to the power of the Controller to maintain, amend or revoke the patent].
Similarly, under the Patents (Amendment) Act, 2005, appeal was restricted to the post-grant opposition orders and that appeal lay before the Appellate Board and not to the High Court.
The High Court will hear and decide the validity of the Order passed by the Controller dated 23.8.06 rejecting "pre-grant opposition" filed by respondent no.3.
But when it came to filing of first appeal for some unknown reasons, the amended Section 117A (which provided for only one statutory appeal and that too against post-grant orders passed by the Controller) was not brought into force.
At that time appeals against decisions made by the Controller pertaining to "pre-grant oppositions" under section 25 were maintainable before the High Court section 116(2) of the Indian Patents Act, 1970.
10.  Vide section 47 of the Patents (Amendment) Act, 2002 entire Chapter XIX stood substituted.
However, it was not brought into force immediately.
Here also, section 25 of the Patents Act, 1970 as amended by Patents (Amendment) Act, 2005 (which refers to "pre-grant opposition" and "post-grant opposition") was brought into force on and from 1.1.2005 whereas amended Section 117A by which appeal was provided for against post-grant opposition order was not brought into force till 2.4.2007.
According to the appellant, though the Patents (Amendment) Act, 2005, amended section 25 by enacting the amendment on 4.4.05 the said amendment was brought into force w.e.f.
(b) or having regard to what was used in India before the priority date of the claim; (h) that the patentee has failed to disclose to the Controller the information required by section 8 or has furnished the information which in any material particular was false to his knowledge; (i) that in the case of a patent granted on convention application, the application for patent was not made within twelve months from the date of the first application for protection for the invention made in a convention country or in India by the patentee or a person from whom he derives title; (j) that the complete specification does not disclose or wrongly mentions the source and geographical origin of biological material used for the invention; (k) that the invention so far as claimed in any claim of the complete specification was anticipated having regard to the knowledge, oral or otherwise, available within any local or indigenous community in India or elsewhere, but on no other ground.
23.  Applying the above tests to the present case, we find that by Patents (Amendment) Act, 2005 for the first time a dichotomy was inserted in the Patent Law by providing vide section 25(1) for "opposition to pre-grant" and vide section 25 (2) for "opposition to post-grant" of patent.
(c) Every Opposition Board constituted under cl.
According to the appellant, on 23.8.06 the Controller rejected its "pre-grant opposition" and on that day "post-grant opposition" avenue was open to respondent no.3 vide section 25(2).
The said appellate remedy was available by way of an appeal to the High Court.
(2) At any time after the grant of patent but before the expiry of a period of one year from the date of publication of grant of a patent, any person interested may give notice of opposition to the Controller in the prescribed manner on any of the following grounds, namely: (a) that the patentee or the person under or through whom he claims, wrongfully obtained the invention or any part thereof from him or from a person under or through whom he claims; (b) that the invention so far as claimed in any claim of the complete specification has been published before the priority date of the claim- (c) that the invention so far as claimed in any claim of the complete specification is claimed in a claim of a complete specification published on or after the priority date of the claim of the patentee and filed in pursuance of an application for a patent in India, being a claim of which the priority date is earlier than that of the claim of the patentee; Explanation.-For the purposes of this clause, an invention relating to a process for which a patent is granted shall be deemed to have been publicly known or publicly used in India before the priority date of the claim if a product made by that process had already been imported into India before that date except where such importation has been for the purpose of reasonable trial or experiment only; (e) that the invention so far as claimed in any claim of the complete specification is obvious and clearly does not involve any inventive step, having regard to the matter published as mentioned in cl.
" 14.  We also quote section 61 of the Patents (Amendment) Act, 2005 which reads as under: "section 61.
It is during this interregnum that respondent no.3 filed its FAO No.293/06 in the High Court under Section 116, as it stood on 19.10.06 under the Patents (Amendment) Act, 1999.
According to the appellant, with the change in the structure of the Act providing for only one statutory appeal and that too only against the order granting patent under section 25(4), the appeal filed by respondent no.3 against pre-grant opposition order was not maintainable on 19.10.06 by which time, as stated above, section 25 stood restructured providing for a dichotomy between "pre-grant opposition" and "post-grant opposition".
On 19.10.06 the old law prevailed under which an appeal lay before the High Court.
It may be noted that in the said Amendment Act, 2002, no provision was made pertaining to "post-grant opposition".
(3) The grant of a patent shall not be refused on the ground stated in Cl.
Keeping in mind the peculiar nature of the problem in hand, we are of the view that ends of justice would be sub served if the High Court is directed to hear and decide the appeals bearing FAO No.292/06 and FAO No.293/06 in accordance with law as it then stood, i.e., section 116 under Patents (Amendment) Act, 1999 against Orders passed by the Controller in "pre-grant opposition" proceedings.
Previously, there was no "post-grant opposition".
1.1.2005 and, therefore, it was open to respondent no.3 to challenge the grant of patent by invoking section 25(2) of the Patents Act, 1970.
(ii) shall not be available where such publication does not constitute an anticipation of the invention by virtue of Sub-s.
As stated, vide Patents (Amendment) Act, 2005, a dichotomy was brought in between pre-grant and post-grant opposition orders w.e.f.
The patent was granted to the appellant on 22.9.06.
(b) On receipt of such notice of opposition, the Controller shall, by order in writing, constitute a Board to be known as the Opposition Board consisting of such officers as he may determine and refer such notice of opposition along with the documents to that Board for examination and submission of its recommendations to the Controller.
However, section 25(1) is wider than section 25(2) as the latter is available only to a "person aggrieved".
25.  Taking into account the complexities involved in this case, on account of a hiatus created by reason of the law not being brought into force in time, we are of the view that the first appeals, filed by respondent no.3 in the High Court being FAO No.292/06 and FAO No.293/06, would remain in the High Court.
(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Appellate Board established section 83 of the Trade Marks Act, 1999 shall be the Appellate Board for the purposes of this Act and the said Appellate Board shall exercise the jurisdiction, power and authority conferred on it by or under this Act: Provided that the Technical Member of the Appellate Board for the purposes of this Act shall have the qualifications specified in Sub- section (2).
