(3) of section 46.
(Cl.
Sub-s.
Statement of Shri Hemant Singh, counsel for M/s. Thakural Mechanical Works without oath : I have no objection if the petitioner is permitted to withdraw this petition with permission to file a fresh petition on this very cause of action.
27.  In Kabushiki Kaisha Toshiba v. Tosiba Appliances Co. & Ors.
One M/s. Jain Industries got the trade mark 'Field Marshal' registered under clause (7), inter alia, for Flour Mills, Centrifugal Pumps, couplings for machines, pulleys included in class 7 and valves (parts of machines).
The trademark was used by the Appellant and Thukral, neither of whom were proprietors thereof, except that Thukral claims to have become its proprietor with effect from 30th May, 1986.
Appeal allowed.
" 10.  The injunction matter in Suit No.2408 of 1985 came up for hearing before a learned Single Judge of the High Court.
The assignor cannot obviously transfer more rights than he himself has to the assignee under the Act.
As it takes away somebody's right, it deserves strict construction.
Renewal of registration, in a sense, also is not automatic.
Thus, a case of speculative assignment is specifically required to be made out.
(b) in relation to any goods, if it is shown that there has been, before the relevent date or during the relevant period, as the case may be, bona fide use of the trade mark by any proprietor thereof for the time being in relation to goods of the same description, being goods in respect of which the trade mark is registered.
" 9.  A fresh application was filed by the first respondent.
(b) shall apply.
Allegation of trafficking is a serious one.
23(2).
It is not correct that no cause of action survived against Jain Industries.
1. Leave granted.
It does not provide for a 'sun set' law.
The said registration was renewed for the periods 13.5.1972 and 12.5.1979; 13.5.1979 and 12.7.1986 and 13.7.1986 and 12.7.1993.
It has to be adjudicated upon.
Consequential amendments have been made to cover services.
We are not concerned herein as to since when it had been doing so.
It provides for civil or evil consequences.
[(2008) 8 SCALE 354 2008 Indlaw SC 1395], this Court held : "We do not find any force in the aforementioned submission.
(5) Any order of the High Court rectifying the register shall direct that notice of the rectification shall be served upon the Registrar in the prescribed manner who shall upon receipt of such notice rectify the register accordingly.
Counsel's fee assessed at Rs.1,00,000/-.
It was furthermore opined : "There may be a case where owing to certain special circumstances, a continuous use is not possible.
30.
Cls.
Indisputably, appellant filed an application in form TM 24 on 17.6.1986.
(3) covers cases falling under cl.
(a) thereof.
Such non-user for a temporary period may be due to any exigency including a bar under a statute, or a policy decision of the Government or any action taken against the registrant.
An assigner can transfer only such right which he possesses.
First Respondent is the registered proprietor of a trade mark 'Field Marshal' for Diesel Engines since 1964 bearing No.228867.
(a) and (b) operate in different fileds.
It only consented for grant of liberty in favour of the first respondent for filing of an application for the self-same cause of action.
Indisputably, it would be the registered proprietor.
The cause of action is continuous from day to day till the impugned registration is cancelled/rectified.
" 29.  The submission of Mr. Sudhir Chandra that the appellant was an infringer both of the right of M/s. Jain Industries as also the first respondent and, thus, its use was not bona fide in a case of this nature cannot be accepted.
V. Addisons Paint & Chemicals Ltd. [(2003) 11 SCC 92 2003 Indlaw SC 756]: "In our opinion, the phrase "person aggrieved" for the purposes of removal on the ground of non-use under section 46 has a different connotation from the phrase used in section 56 for canceling or expunging or varying an entry wrongly made or remaining in the Register.
(22) of article 366 the President is not invested with authority to accord a temporary recognition to a Ruler nor with authority to recognize or not to recognize a Ruler arbitrarily : the expression "for them time being" predicts that there shall be a Ruler of the Indian State, that if the first recognized Ruler dies, or ceases to be a Ruler, a successor shall be appointed, and that there shall not be more Rulers than one at a given time.
" 11.  Correctness or otherwise of the said order has not been questioned.
It, therefore, can be taken away only when the conditions laid down therefor are satisfied.
The petition is accordingly filed as withdrawn leaving the parties to bear their own costs.
" 40.  We do not think that the approach of the learned author is entirely correct.
Registration of a trade mark remains valid for seven years.
19.  The words 'for the time being' would mean differently in different situations.
This amendment is intended to remove any ambiguity, as for all other purposes, the date of registration will be the date on which the application was filed vide cl.
(b) and clause (a), having regard to the similarity of the expressions used, there was no reason as to why it could not be stated so explicitly.
It may mean 'the moment or existing position' as was held by this Court in the case of Jivendra Nath Kaul v. Collector/District Magistrate and Anr.
It must be proved in presence of the person against whom such allegations are made.
The order of injunction was vacated.
Let the statement of learned counsel for the petitioner be recorded.
(22) of article 366 of the Constitution as has been held in H.H. Maharajadhiraja Madhav Rao Jivaji Rao Scindia Bahadur of Gwalior, H.H. Maharajadhiraja Maharana Shri Bhagwat Singhji Bahadur of Udaipur v. Union of India and Anr. , AIR 1971 SC 530 1970 Indlaw SC 300 para 88  to mean: "By the use of the expression "for the time being" in Cl.
For one reason or the other, the said order attained finality.
16.1.1987 was the date fixed in the said suit.
" 16.  The Act was enacted to provide for the registration and better protection of trademarks and for the prevention of the use of fraudulent marks of merchandise.
22.  Non-user of the said mark, therefore, entails the consequences laid down under cl.
This appears to be the position at least till 30th May, 1986.
(b) Defendants shall mention the name of the defendant firm, Thukral Mechanical Works, Sirhind on each and every centrifugal pump manufactured by them and sold in the name of 'Field Marshal'.
While interpreting the same, however, certain basic principles of construction of statute must be kept in mind.
It is set aside accordingly.
It claimed user of the said mark since 1963 and sought for rectification of the register by expunging the expression 'circulation and centrifugal pumps' from the specification of goods.
The said order of the Division Bench is under challenge in this appeal.
41.  For the views we have taken, we are of the opinion that the impugned judgment cannot be sustained.
47 of the Bill)" 32.  The Court while construing a statute takes into consideration the parliamentary intent in amending the provisions thereof.
In other words, the mistake of the predecessor should not be visited with non-use of the present registered owner.
Jurisdiction of the Board being dependent on determination of the foundational facts, the same was required to be established on the basis of the averments made in the application and not otherwise.
If his title is not extinguished by reason of a provision of a statute for non-user of the trade mark for a period of five years, any assignment made shall be valid subject to such situation which we have noticed in paragraph 25 supra.
Registrar of Trade Marks under Section 46, 56 and 107 of the Trade and Merchandise Marks Act, 1958 for rectification of entry relating to the Registered Trade Mark No.228867 in Class 7.
This is intended to prevent the registered proprietor to by pass the Act by such token use after he comes to know that an application for removal is about to be filed. ?Sub-cl.
