" 14.   Sub-cl.
Procedure and conditions for affiliation could not be inconsistent with the provisions of the Central Act, in particular section 10(k) of the Regulation, and the University could not seek approval of Government.
So far as the provisions of the Mahatma Gandhi University Act or its statutes were concerned and in particular statute 9(7), they merely required the University to obtain the 'views' of the State Government.
These are stated to be the reasons for the government's rejection by letter dated 16.8.96.
23.   We shall now refer to the above judgment dealing with the question of 'approval' for establishing technical institutions under section 10(K) of the AICTE Act.
The Secretary, Technical Education of the State of Kerala was also a member of that Committee.
All that was necessary was that under the Regulations, the AICTE Council had to consult them.
This report no doubt pointed out that the appellant had not complied with certain conditions mentioned in the approval dated 30.4.95 granted by the AICTE.
32.   Thus we hold, in the present case that there was no statutory require-ment for obtaining the approval of the State Government and even if there was one, it would have been repugnant to the AICTE Act.
was to grant permission, the appellant requested the State Government by letter dated 24.6.1995 for permission to start the college.
The letter said that for that reason the proposals of the University were being submitted to the Government "for necessary action".
But by that date, the AICTE Act, 1987 had come into force.
As pointed out in the Tamil Nadu case there were enough provisions in the Central Act for consultation by the Council of the AICTE with various agencies, including the State Governments and the Universities concerned.
4.   The learned Single Judge of the High Court by his judgment dated 14.1.1997 allowed the writ petition, quashed the above-said order of the government dated 16.8.1996 and directed the Mahatama Gandhi University to consider the appellant's application for permanent affiliation without reference to the above letter of the Government and pass appropriate order within 8 weeks from the date of the receipt of a copy of the judgment.
Once that was over, and approval was granted by the AICTE, if there was any default on the part of the College in compliance with the conditions of approval, the only remedy for the Univer-sity was to bring those facts to the notice of the AICTE so that the latter could take appropriate action.
The Tamil Nadu Act was of 1976 and the University Act was of 1923 and were laws referable to the List III.
It is against the abovesaid judgment of the Division Bench that this appeal has been preferred.
28.   Learned Additional Solicitor General stated before us that there was no statute in the State of Kerala corresponding to the Tamil Nadu Act of 1976 nor any other law which specifically required the 'approval' of the State Government.
The Tamil Nadu Rules of 1976 made under the 1976 Act had no doubt excluded technical institutions from the purview of the Rules but this Court pointed out that the Rules were capable of being amended so as to extend to such technical institutions and that if they were so extended, the State Act of 1976 and the Rules would require "approval' by the State Government and that would be void.
It reads as follows : " Grant of affiliation : (1)..................... (3)..................... (7) After considering the report of the Commission and the report of the local inquiry, if any, and after making such further inquiry as it may deem necessary, the Syndicate shall decide, after ascer-taining the view of the Government also, whether the affiliation be granted or refused, either in whole or part.
41.  Therefore, the State could not have any "policy" outside the AICTE Act and indeed if it had a policy, it should have placed the same before the AICTE and that too before the latter granted permission.
Sub-cl. 2 with the courses or programmes and sub-cl.
35.  It was stated that Government could not initially take a decision on the appellant's affiliation because of elections and that matter being one of 'major policy' the Government had subsequently "taken a policy decision not to sanction any affiliation to such colleges either in the private sector or in the public sector for this year".
10.   Before we refer to the abovesaid judgment, it will be necessary to refer to certain provisions of the AICTE Act and the relevant regulations.
and sub-cl. 5 with the staff and sub-cl. 6 with the Governing Body of the private institutions and subcl.
Therefore the AICTE consti-tuted a Task Force and obtained its opinion and thereafter granted its approval on 13.11.1995 subject to various conditions.
29.   The only provision relied on before us by the State Government which according to its learned senior counsel, amounted to a statutory requirement of 'approval' of the State Government, was the one contained in cl.
(p) to inspect or cause inspection to any technical institution, cl.
Regulation 8(4) of AICTE only required calling for the "com-ments/recommendations" of the State Government and of the University.
6.   Learned senior counsel for the appellant Sri T.L. Vishwanatha Iyer contended that the Division Bench erred in reversing the well considered judgment of the learned Single Judge and according to him after the coming into force of the AICTE Act, 1987, the statutes conferring power on the State or University to the extent they were inconsistent with the Central Act were void.
1 of Regulation 6 deals with the financial position.
Assuming certain fresh facts had come to the notice of the University, it could only place the said facts before the AICTE.
After the Constitutional Amendment (42 Amendment Act, 1976) Entry 25 of List III in the Concurrent List read : "Education, included technical education, medical institution and Universities, subject to the provisions of Entries 63, 64, 65 and 66 of List I; vocational and technical training of labour".
(t) to advice for declaring institutions to be deemed as universities, cl.
At that time in 1984, the AICTE Act was not on the statute book.
No doubt the question of affiliation was a different matter and was not covered by the Central Act but in the Tamil Nadu case, it was held that the University could not impose any conditions inconsistent with the AICTE Act or its Regulation or the conditions imposed by the AICTE.  Therefore, the procedure for obtaining the affiliation and any conditions which could be imposed by the University, could not be inconsistent with the provisions of the Central Act.
1.   The appellant is a trust which wanted to establish a self-financing Engineering College and submitted an application during 1994-95 to the University of Kerala as well as to All India Council for Technical Education (hereinafter called the 'AICTE') There was an inspection by a team of Professors of the University and it recommended favourably when it stated that the facilities provided by the appellant would be sufficient for establish-ing an Engineering College.
The reference to the Commission in the above cl.
Sub-cl. 4 of Regulation 8 reads as follows : "Reg. 8(4) The Bureau RC shall invite comments/recommendations on the applications referred to in sub-regulation (3) from the follow-ing, namely : (i) the State Government concerned ; (ii) the affiliating University/State Board of Technical Education; (iii) Bureaus MPCD; (iv) Bureau BOS; (v) Bureau RA; (vi) the Regional Office.
If there was any such existing law immediately before the commencement of the Constitution within the meaning of article 372 of the Constitution, as the Madras University Act 1923 on the enactment of the present Central Act, the provisions of the said law if repugnant to the provisions of the Central Act would stand impliedly repealed to the extent of repugnancy.
42.  Decision of University in not granting further or fined affiliation wrong on merits : 43.  Admittedly, the University's inspection report was in favour of the appellant.
47.  The appeal is allowed and disposed of as stated above.
The direction to the Mahatama Gandhi University to consider the application of the appellant for final affiliation or continuance of affiliation is confirmed and this is to be done on the basis of the approval granted by the AICTE dated 30.4.95, or any other relevant factors in the University Act or its statutes, which are not inconsistent with the AICTE Act or its Regulations.
The learned Single Judge's order quashing the letter of the State Government dated 16.8.96 is upheld.
We hold that the approval of the AICTE was sufficient, we do not also think that it was necessary for the learned Single Judge to direct the State Government to reconsider its decision.
The University was also one of the agencies consulted by the council of the AICTE under Regulation 8.
The only requirement as per the statute 9(7) was for the University to obtain the "views" of the State Government.
This is clear from the appellant's letter dated 31.5.95 to the State Government.
We may however add that if thereafter, any fresh facts came to light after an approval was granted by the AICTE or if the State felt that some conditions attached to the permission and required by the AICTE to be complied with, were not complied with, then the State government could always write to the AICTE, to enable the latter to take appropriate action.
Once that procedure laid down in the AICTE Act and regulations had been followed under Regulation 8(4), and the Central Task Force had also given its favourable recommendations, there was no scope for any further objection or approval by the State.
If the State Government had any other valid objections, its only remedy was to place its objections before the AICTE Council under the AICTE Act or before the Committees, e.g. State Level Committee etc.
Hence the State Government in its counter, could not have relied upon any contrary opinion of the Director of Technical Education.
The said approval was based also on the inspection by the Expert Committee of the AICTE.
Here the letter of approval of the AICTE dated 30.4.95 showed that the Central Task Force had given its approval.
The Director of Technical Education of the State was a member of the State Level Committee as per regulation 9(4) of the AICTE Regulations.
Even on merits, the reasons given by the State Government in its counter are not tenable in law.
This ground of repugnancy alone would be sufficient to quash the State Government's letter dated 16.8.1996 refusing to give their approval.
36.  State Government's refusal to grant permission is illegal and void on merits : 37.  As already stated, in view of the judgment of this Court in Tamil Nadu case, it is obvious that there is no need to approach the State of Kerala for its approval for starting the Engineering colleges.
The All India Council for Technical Education and the Mahatma Gandhi University have sought for the remarks of the State Government.
It was stated : "he could not ascertain the infrastructural facilities provided by the appellant as per the norms prescribed by the All India Council of Technical Education.
The Mahatma Gandhi University had included this appellant in the list of colleges and courses which were granted affiliation during 1995-96 and the University had written to the State Government on 31.5.95 that as per statute 9(7), the "views" of the government were to be sent before granting affili-ation.
The State Government was directed by the AICTE to announce admission in accordance with Regulation notified on 20.5.94 and based on the judgment of the Supreme Court in Unnikrishnan v. State of Andhra Pradesh, [1993] 1 SCC 645 1993 Indlaw SC 1168.
