Second appellant Rajbir @ Raju is ordered to be released forthwith if not required in any other case.
First accused Jage Ram pleaded that on the date of occurrence-complainant party Jagdish and his sons Mange Ram and Sukhbir forcibly trespassed into the land belonging to the accused and attempted to forcibly cut the pullas.
In our considered view, the conviction of the second appellant Rajbir @ Raju section 307 IPC is unassailable.
Learned counsel for the appellants contended that the second appellant is in custody for more than three years and since the occurrence was in the year 1994, prayed for reduction of the sentence imposed on the second appellant to the period already undergone.
PW-9 stated that had not the operation been conducted on Sukhbir and had not the extra-dural haemotoma removed by operation urgently, the head injury caused to Sukhbir would have caused his death.
Although the nature of injury actually caused may be of assistance in coming to a finding as to the intention of the accused, such intention may also be adduced from other circumstances.
PW 2- Dr. Pardeep Kumar in his evidence stated that he has examined PWs 5 and 6 and noted the injuries on the body of PWs 5 and 6 and issued wound certificates.
Appellants have raised the contention that the prosecution failed to adduce evidence that A-2 Rajbir attempted to commit murder of Sukhbir.
It was submitted that the medical evidence sufficiently corroborated the oral evidence and the prosecution has established the intention of the 2nd accused in causing attempt to commit murder of Sukhbir and in appreciation of the evidence, courts below recorded concurrent findings convicting the second accused section 307 IPC and the same warrants no interference.
What sentence would meet the ends of justice would depend upon the facts and circumstances of each case and the courts must keep in mind the gravity of the offence, motive for the crime, nature of the offence and all other attendant circumstances.
Whether the accused person intended to commit murder of another person would depend upon the facts and circumstances of each case.
As noticed above, injured-Sukhbir sustained grievous head injuries and was deeply comatose and was in a state of shock and trauma.
The appeal is allowed to the above said extent.
The second accused Rajbir @ Raju shall deposit the balance compensation amount of Rs.2,50,000/- before the trial court within three months from the date of this judgment and on such deposit, the same shall also be paid to the injured witness-Sukhbir.
The conviction of second accused Rajbir @ Raju section 307 IPC is confirmed and the sentence of imprisonment of five years is reduced to the period already undergone and additionally the second accused shall pay a compensation of Rs.7,50,000/- to the injured witness-Sukhbir.
The conviction of A-1 section 325 IPC, A-3 and A- 4 section 323 IPC is confirmed and the sentence is reduced to the period already undergone by each of them.
Having regard to the fact that the occurrence was of the year 1994, considering the other facts and circumstances of the case, the sentence of imprisonment imposed on Jage Ram (A-1), Madan (A-3) and Rakesh (A-4) is reduced to the period already undergone by them.
For inflicting blows on PW-5 Jagidsh with jaily A-1 Jage Ram was convicted section 325 IPC and sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment for one year. A-3 and A-4 have also given lathis blows to PW-5 and were convicted section 323 IPC and sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment for three months by the High Court.
When the matter came up for hearing on 14.10.2014, learned counsel for the appellants informed the Court that he had offered Rs.5,00,000/- by way of demand draft towards compensation to the injured-Sukhbir in the presence of the Sarpanch of the village which he has refused to receive the same.
Having regard to the nature of injuries sustained by Sukhbir and the period of treatment and other circumstances, we are of the view that, it would be appropriate to direct second appellant- accused Rajbir @ Raju to pay Rs.7,50,000/- as compensation to the injured-Sukhbir.
Learned counsel for the injured-witness submitted that for quite some time injured-Sukhbir was unconscious and thereafter suffering from mental trauma.
The second accused Rajbir @ Raju is in custody.
The circumstances that the injury inflicted by the accused was simple or minor will not by itself rule out application of section 307 IPC.
The court has to see whether the act, irrespective of its result, was done with the intention or knowledge and under circumstances mentioned in the section.
The intention of the accused is to be gathered from the circumstances like the nature of the weapon used, words used by the accused at the time of the incident, motive of the accused, parts of the body where the injury was caused and the nature of injury and severity of the blows given etc.
To justify a conviction section 307 IPC, it is not essential that fatal injury capable of causing death should have been caused.
For the purpose of conviction section 307 IPC, prosecution has to establish (i) the intention to commit murder and (ii) the act done by the accused.
In the light of the fact that PWs 5 and 6 were injured witnesses, courts below tested their evidence for its credibility and recorded concurrent findings that PWs 5 and 6 are trustworthy witnesses.
Cogent and convincing grounds are required to discard the evidence of injured witnesses.
Evidence of PWs 5 and 6 is amply corroborated by medical evidence.
PWs 5 & 6 have clearly spoken about the overt act of the accused that A-1 Jage Ram attacked and caused injury to PW-5 Jagdish with jaily blows and that second accused Rajbir @ Raju attacked on the head of Sukhbir with pharsi.
In the wordy altercation, second accused Rajbir @ Raju gave pharsi blows on the head of Sukhbir.
The accused party went there and asked them not to cut the pullas.
As it emerges from the evidence, complainant Jagdish (PW-5) and his two sons Sukhbir and Mange Ram were cutting pullas.
Per contra, learned counsel appearing for the respondent-State contended that the evidence of all the witnesses satisfactorily establishes the overt act of the accused persons and Jagdish (PW-5) and Mange Ram (PW-6) being the injured witnesses, the veracity of these witnesses cannot be doubted.
It was submitted that injured witness Sukhbir was not examined in the court and neither CT Scan nor x-ray nor operational notes of Sukhbir were produced before the court and in the absence of such material evidence, courts below erred in convicting the second accused section 307 IPC.
In this appeal, the appellants assail the correctness of the impugned judgment.
High Court modified the sentence of Madan (A-3) Rakesh (A-4) section 323 IPC and sentenced them to undergo rigorous imprisonment for six months (two counts) respectively.
The High Court vide impugned judgment dated 19.8.2011 modified the judgment of the trial court thereby convicted Jage Ram (A-1) section 325 IPC and sentenced him to undergo rigorous imprisonment for one year, convicted second accused Rajbir @ Raju section 307 IPC and imposed sentence of imprisonment for five years as well the fine of Rs.500/- was confirmed by the High Court.
Aggrieved by the said judgment, the accused-appellants filed criminal appeal before the High Court of Punjab and Haryana.
Jagdish further claims that he along with Rakesh caused injuries to the complainant party in exercise of right of private defence of property.
In the trial court, prosecution examined nine witnesses including Jagdish-PW5, Mange Ram-PW6 and Dr. Prem Kumar-PW2 and Dr. HiIol Kanti Pal-PW9, Neuro Surgeon, PW8-investigating officer and other witnesses.
Statement of Jagdish was recorded, based on which F.I.R. was registered at Police Station Taoru, Gurgaon under Sections 323, 324, 325 and 307 read with section 34 IPC.
A CT scan disclosed that large extra-dural haematoma was found in the frontal region with mass effect and Sukhbir needed urgent surgery and he was operated upon and the large extra-dural haematoma was removed.
Injured Sukhbir was vomiting in the hospital and later on he was referred to General Hospital, Gurgaon as his condition deteriorated.
