Prosecution has led no evidence nor brought any circumstances on the record from which any inference may be drawn that the appellants intended to strike terror amongst the "Wadar Community".
The complainant party went towards Jagdamba Hotel owned by Waman Band Patte PW.
The conviction and sentence of the appellants for the offence under Section 3 TADA cannot therefore, be sustained and is hereby set aside.
At the identification parade, A-5 was identified by PW-9, PW10, PW-11, PW-14 and PW-15; A-10 by PWs 10 to 15; A-11 by PW 3 and PWs 9 to 15; A-1 by PWs 10 to 15; A-8 and A-9 by PW-3 and by PWs 10 to 15.
We are in agreement with the Designated Court that there is ample evidence led by the prosecution to establish the incident at the video parlour and also that the said incident was the origin for the subsequent assault.
PW10 narrated the incident of the video parlour to those persons and in the meantime the accused party arrived there in a jeep and two auto- rickshaws and started assaulting the complainant party.
In our opinion the Designated Court fell in error in holding that an offence under Section 3 of TADA had been committed by the accused-appellants in the established facts and circumstances of this case.
The learned Judge of the Designated Court acquitted A-2, A-3, A-4, A-6, A-7 and A-12 of the offences charged against them, apparently influenced by the lack of identification of these accused persons by the prosecution witnesses at the identification parade conducted by the Executive Magistrate.
Learned counsel submitted that the appellants should not be denied the opportunity to get the first hearing in the High Court because in the event of their failure in the High Court, they still have a chance to approach this Court under Article 136 of the Constitution of India.
State of Maharashtra And Others [(1994) 4 SCC, 602] 1994 Indlaw SC 1706 this Court opined that the criminal activity in order to invoke TADA must be committed with the requisite intention as contemplated by Section 3(1) of the Act by use of such weapons as have been enumerated therein and which cause or are likely to result in the commission of offences as mentioned in that Section.
Some of the prosecution witnesses including the deceased, PW9 and PW14 were already standing near the Jagdamba hotel.
Even Bajrang PW- 14 who is an injured witness himself and deposed about the incident at Jagdamba hotel with sufficient details appears to have exaggerated the version when he stated that he had been assaulted by A-10 also besides A-5 and A-11 auite contrary to his earlier statement.
The learned trial court appears to have ignored to take into consideration the essential requirements for establishing an offence under Section 3 of TADA.
We do not find any force in the submission of the learned counsel for the appellant that since Mohan Lal PW-19, who runs the video parlour has not fully supported the prosecution version regarding the cause of altercation at the video parlour, the genesis of the occurrence gets shrouded in doubt.
From our independent analytical appreciation of the evidence on the record, we are of the opinion that the Designated Court rightly found the participation of A-1, A- 5, A-8, A-9 and A-11, in the assault, to have been positively established.
It was observed : "Thus, keeping in view the settled position that the provisions of Section 3 of TADA have been held to be Constitutionally valid in Kartar Singh case and from the law laid down by this Court in Usmanbhai and Niranjan cases, it follows that an activity which is sought to be punished under Section 3(1) of TADA has to be such which cannot be classified as a mere law and order problem or disturbance of public order or even disturbance of the even tempo of the life of the community of any specified locality but is of the nature which cannot be tackled as an ordinary criminal activity under the ordinary penal law by the normal law-enforcement agencies because the intended extent and reach of the criminal activity of the 'terrorist' is such which travels beyond the gravity of the mere disturbance of public order even of a 'virulent nature' and may at times transcend the frontiers of the locality and may include such anti-national activities which throw a challenge to the very integrity and sovereignty of the country in its democratic polity................ Thus, unless the Act complained of falls strictly within the letter and spirit of Section 3(1) of TADA and is committed with the intention as envisaged by that section by means of the weapons etc.
as are enumerated therein with the motive as postulated thereby, an accused cannot be tried or convicted for an offence under Section 3(1) of TADA.......... Likewise, if it is only as a consequence of the criminal act that fear, terror or/and panic is caused but the intention of committing the particular crime cannot be said to be the one strictly envisaged by Section 3(1), it would be impermissible to try or convict and punish an accused under TADA.
By no stretch of imagination can it be said that the accused had the intention to strike terror, much less in a particular section of the society, when they entered into an altercation at the video parlour or even when they went after the complainant party and opened an assault on then opposite Jagdamba hotel or at the Math.
The transfer of the appeal to the High Court, after hearing the appeal on merits and finding that Section 3 of TADA on the basis of the evidence led by the prosecution, was not made out, is neither desirable nor proper nor permissible let alone justified.
An identification parade had been held by Shri Shrikant Chimanaji Jahagirdar (PW-32), Executive Magistrate.
There cannot be piece meal hearing of an appeal on merits - first by this Court to determine if an offence under TADA is made out or not and then by the High Court.
These witnesses categorically deposed that A-5, A-10 and A-11 were responsible for causing injuries to Bajrang PW-14.
That apart the name of A-10 does not figure specifically in the statement of Baban PW-9, which formed the basis of the FIR, exhibit 77.
It is alleged that A-5, A-10 and A- 11 assaulted Popat deceased with the swords on his head and thighs and when Baban tried to intervene he was also assaulted and he received a blow with the sattur near his knee.
In a case where the Designated Court finds that no offence under TADA is made out, it is open to the said Court to transfer the case to the regular Criminal Court under Section 18 TADA but once the charge is framed and the case is tried by the Designated Court, an appeal against conviction, sentence or acquittal lies only to the Supreme Court and to no other court.
Appeal - (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code, an appeal shall lie as a matter of right from any judgment, sentence or order, not being an interlocutory order, of a Designated Court to the Supreme Court both on facts and on law.
Appellants No. 1 (A-5), 2 (A-8), 3 (A-9) and 5 (A-11) had alongwith the deceased accused A-1 and some others, about whose identity there has been some doubt, formed an unlawful assembly and in furtherance of the common object of that assembly committed the murder of Popat deceased besides causing injuries to PW9 and PW14.
During the pendency of the two charge- sheets the Addl.
Out of the said twelve accused, 6 accused were acquitted of all the charges while the five appellants herein, namely, Bonkya alias Bharat Shivaji Mane (A-5), Mandu Baliba Dombe (A-8), Ashok Baloba Dombe (A-9), Ranjar Bhausaheb Dombe (A-10) and Kaka alias Pandurang Baloba Dombe (A-11) were convicted for offences under Section 302/307/149 IPC and Section 3 of TADA and sentenced to suffer life imprisonment and to pay a fine of Rs.5,000/- each for the offence under Section 302/149 IPC; 10 years RI and a fine of Rs.5,000/- each for the offence under Section 307/149 IPC; 2 years RI for the offence under Section 324/149 IPC and life imprisonment and fine of Rs.5,000/- each for the offence under Section 3 of TADA.
Even if for the sake of argument we were to ignore the evidence of PW19, it would not materially affect the prosecution case in so faras the incident at the video parlour is concerned.
Bajrang (PW-14) was taken to the hospital by Waman PW-15, Ramesh PW-11 and Prakash PW-2, whereas Popat deceased who was seriously injured and had fallen down unconscious after receipt of the injuries was removed to the hospital by the police when it arrived at the spot a little later.
Police Inspector Joshi arrived at the hospital and Baban Karpe PW-9 narrated the occurrence to him which was reduced into writing.
Twelve accused persons were tried for offences under Section 302, 307/149, 324, 147, 148 and Section 3 of Terrorist and Disruptive Activites (Prevention) Act, 1987 (hereinafter referred to as 'TADA') by the learned Designated Judge, Pune.
According to A-2, A-3, A-5, A- 6 and A-7 they had been identified by PW-9, during the identification parade, at the instance of the police. A-4 alleged false implication at the instance of PW-15 Waman while A-8 alleged false implication at the hands of the police with a view to pressurise him to withdraw a complaint concerning the murder of his brother and 5 others allegedly committed by the police.
It appears to be a mere coincidence that PW9, PW14 and the deceased all belong to the "Wadar Community".
The evidence of PW10, PW-11 and PW-12 has received ample corroboration from the testimony of PW-9, PW- 13, PW-14 and PW-15, who deposed that while the witnesses were narrating the incident of the video parlour to Waman Band Patte PW-15 and other witnesses present there the accused party arrived in a Jeep and two auto-rickshaws variously armed and opened an attack on the complainant party with a view to teach them a lesson for the altercation which had taken place earlier at the video parlour.
