Cl.
This part of the enquiry is purely objective and inferential and has nothing to do with the intention of the offender.
On being cross-examined, PW-7 categorically stated that death due to stab injury was in consequence of Injury No. 1 and all other injuries were superficial in nature.
All "murder" is "culpable homicide" but not vice-versa.
Illustration (c) appended to section 300 clearly brings out this point.
We have PWs.
The accused then started assaulting her and PW-8 with slaps.
There was a heated exchange of words between Rauji and the appellant switched on the light, which was again switched off by Rauji, the deceased.
Once these three elements are proved to be present, the enquiry proceeds further, and fourthly, it must be proved that the injury of the type just described made up of the three elements set out above was sufficient to cause death in the ordinary course of nature.
The trial court passed an order on 04.08.1998 acquitting all the accused persons from the offences under Sections 302, 323, 143, 147 and 149 of IPC.
(b) of section 299 corresponds with cls.
It is also clear and established that thereafter a lamp was brought by Accused No. 3 to the room besides another lamp which was already burning in the said room itself.
1, 2, 8 and 18 as eye-witnesses to the occurrence.
Appeal disposed of
Therefore, he brought them along with the residents of the house who were found to be there namely Accused No. 3 and the two juvenile offenders namely Sarita and Sharmila, who were all ladies.
Thirdly, it must be proved that there was an intention to inflict that particular bodily injury, that is to say, that it was not accidental or unintentional, or that some other kind of injury was intended.
Immediately after the incident, hearing cries of passengers, the driver of the bus stopped the bus.
These observations of Vivian Bose, J. have become locus classicus.
PW-21 who was at that time attached to Konda Police Station as PSI was informed at about 10.45 p.m. that the deceased while was being brought in the police jeep by a police constable Jaisingrao Rane and was being taken to the Government Medical College but before the deceased could be admitted he died.
He stated that although the house had electricity connection, but was not having the electricity supply.
He submitted that since there was violation of the provisions of section 162 of the CrPC, the accused-appellant is liable to be acquitted.
20.  In Animireddy Venkata Ramana and Others v. Public Prosecutor, High Court of Andhra Pradesh, (2008) 5 SCC 368, 2008 Indlaw SC 354 , this Court while considering a similar case observed as follows: " 10.
They reached the scene of offence at about 11.30 p.m. but found the entire place plunged into darkness and with the help of torch light, PW-21 surveyed the scene of offence.
According to PW-1, in order to avoid the assault by all of them, they went to "bulcao" (balcony).
S.P. Shri Raikar and P.I. Shri Alan O'Sa were sent in their search.
P.C. 18.  The issue with regard to the initiation of the investigation without recording the FIR was succinctly addressed by this Court in the case of State of U.P. v. Bhagwant Kishore Joshi, (1964) 3 SCR 71 1963 Indlaw SC 268, observed as follows: "17.
The postmortem report indicates that there were sixteen injuries as against the two as adduced in ocular evidence and, therefore, a submission was made by the counsel appearing for the appellant that the medical evidence adduced in the present case is not supporting the ocular evidence.
His bail bonds shall stand cancelled and the appellant shall surrender immediately to serve out the remaining period of sentence.
This is punishable under the first part of section 304.
Both the expression "intent" and "knowledge" postulate the existence of a positive mental attitude which is of different degrees.
" 19.
During the survey made at the place of occurrence, PW-21 noticed some blood-stains in the front courtyard of the house and a pipe of length of about 1 foot or slightly less lying in the courtyard having blood-stains.
The aforesaid distinction between an act amounting to murder and an act not amounting to murder has been brought out in the numerous decisions of this Court.
section 299 defines culpable homicide as the act of causing death; (i) with the intention of causing death or (ii) with the intention of causing such bodily injury as is likely to cause death or (iii) with the knowledge that such act is likely to cause death.
15.
A report to that effect might have been noted in the general diary but the same could not have been treated to be an FIR.
12.
Thereupon, the appellant went and removed the fuse of the said light.
14.
16.
Whether he knew of its seriousness, or intended serious consequences, is neither here nor there.
Religious ceremony was performed by installing the statue of Lord Ganesh in the house and while the said religious ceremony was being performed, Accused No. 2 started uttering insults while standing in the kitchen.
The test laid down by Virsa Singh case4 for the applicability of clause "thirdly" is now ingrained in our legal system and has become part of the rule of law.
22.
PW-1, however, intervened and removed the said piece of cement block from the hand of Accused No. 3 but, Accused No. 3 then picked up one stone and tried to throw it on Rauji by saying that she was going to kill him with that stone.
Where, however, a police officer makes some preliminary enquiries, does not arrest or even question an accused or question any witnesses but merely makes a few discreet enquiries or looks at some documents without making any notes, it is difficult to visualise how any possible harassment or even embarrassment would result therefrom to the suspect or the accused person.
In law, testimony of an injured witness is given importance.
The above are only broad guidelines and not cast-iron imperatives.
Reference in this regard may be made to the decision of this Court in State of U. P. v. Krishna Gopal, (1988) 4 SCC 302; 1988 Indlaw SC 76 Anwar v. State of Haryana, (1997) 9 SCC 766; 1997 Indlaw SC 2447 Ravi Kumar v. State of Punjab, (2005) 9 SCC 315 2005 Indlaw SC 170; Munivel v. State of T.N., (2006) 9 SCC 394 2006 Indlaw SC 118.
PW-8, PW-18 and PW-1 then lifted Rauji and brought him in the courtyard.
There is cogent and reliable evidence on record to prove and establish that the accused has committed the act of stabbing as a result of which the deceased had died.
(3).
(2).
7.
6.
5.
4.
3.
Merely making some preliminary enquire upon receipt of information from an anonymous source or a source of doubtful reliability for checking up the correctness of the information does not amount to collection of evidence and so cannot be regarded as investigation.
21.
It was observed that the prosecution must prove the following facts before it can bring a case under section 300 "thirdly".
As already noted, it is quite clear from the record that there was an altercation preceding the incident.
Thereafter, PW-21, along with P.I. D'Sa gave a call to the inmates of the house to open the door and on hearing the call, one lady opened the door.
He next submitted that there was no evidence on record as to when the FIR reached the Magistrate and that none of the courts below considered the said aspect.
(4) of section 300 would be applicable where the knowledge of the offender as to the probability of death of a person or persons in general as distinguished from a particular person or persons -- being caused from his imminently dangerous act, approximates to a practical certainty.
11.
17.
When the eyewitnesses are stated to be interested and inimically disposed towards the accused, it has to be noted that it would not be proper to conclude that they would shield the real culprit and rope in innocent persons.
Duty of the State to protect the life of an injured as also an endeavour on the part of the responsible police officer to reach the place of occurrence in a situation of this nature is his implicit duty and responsibility.
It was a very cryptic information received by him regarding the death of a person residing within the jurisdiction of his police station pursuant to an incident taking place on 10.04.1988 between 8.30 p.m. to 8.45 p.m. and, therefore, it appears that there was not enough information available to him either to get a G.D. entry recorded or to get an FIR lodged.
Initially the accused-appellant also did not have any weapon with him but during the course of the incident he went inside and got a knife with the help of which he stabbed the deceased.
Certain basic facts are not denied or disputed.
20.
" 32.  The aforesaid principles have been consistently followed by this Court in several decisions.
In most cases, their observance will facilitate the task of the court.
The investigating officer was also informed.
section 300 IPC, however, deals with murder although there is no clear definition of murder provided in section 300 IPC.
10.  Being aggrieved by the aforesaid judgment and order of acquittal the State filed an appeal in the High Court against Accused Nos.
It is not necessary for the purpose of this case to dilate much on the distinction between these corresponding clauses.
2.  Facts giving rise to the present appeal may be stated first so as to enable us to appreciate the arguments raised by the parties more effectively.
The distinction is fine but real and if overlooked, may result in miscarriage of justice.
To put it more broadly, it is the degree of probability of death which determines whether a culpable homicide is of the gravest, medium or the lowest degree.
" 31.  Placing strong reliance on the aforesaid decision, this Court in the case of Abdul Waheed Khan v. State of A.P., (2002) 7 SCC 175 2002 Indlaw SC 1777, observed as follows at page 184: "13.
He is also entitled to search the place of the offence and to search other places with the object of seizing articles connected with the offence.
There was indeed some scuffle between the parties during the course of which Accused No. 1 received simple injuries and the deceased died of the two stab injuries inflicted by the present appellant.
14.  Ms. A. Subhashini, learned counsel appearing for the respondent- State, however, strenuously submitted that none of the aforesaid submissions could be accepted by this Court as it is a foolproof case of conviction of the appellant section 302 IPC.
But if after careful analysis and scrutiny of their evidence, the version given by the witnesses appears to be clear, cogent and credible, there is no reason to discard the same.
But sometimes the facts are so intertwined and the second and the third stages so telescoped into each, that it may not be convenient to give a separate treatment to the matters involved in the second and third stages.
There is, therefore, provocation and the incident happened at the spur of the moment.
The truth or otherwise of the evidence has to be weighed pragmatically.
(2) of section 300 can be where the assailant causes death by a fist-blow intentionally given knowing that the victim is suffering from an enlarged liver, or enlarged spleen or diseased heart and such blow is likely to cause death of that particular person as a result of the rupture of the liver, or spleen or the failure of the heart, as the case may be.
