Appeal Allowed
The respondent-plaintiff had alleged in both the suits that the appellant was his tenant in the suit premises which were leased to him for conducting his business in the name of Ahmedabad Fine & Weaving Works, and according to the terms of tenancy suit, the suit premises were leased for manufacturing cloth in the name of Ahmedabad Fine & Weaving Works.
13.   The first partnership deed which is Exhibit-114 is dated 13th October, 1960.
2 to 5 in the name of Bharat Neon Signs.
All these factors were present before the Court of Small Causes.
We find intrinsically nothing improbable.
The following important elements must be there in order to establish partnership, (1) there must be an agreement entered into by all parties concerned, (2) the agreement must be to share profits of business; and (3) the business must be carried on by all or any of the persons concerned acting for all.
In this the appellant was not a partner.
933 1961 Indlaw SC 157 had to consider section 35(1) of the Delhi & Ajmer Rent Corntrol Act, 1952.
The said section reads as follows:- "35(1) The High Court may, at any time, call for the record of any case under this Act for the purpose of satisfying itself that a decision made therein is according to law and may pass such order in relation thereto as it thinks fit.
The appellant was not to share the losses.
It was further held that whether there was subletting was not a mixed question of law and fact.
19.  The revisional authority could ensure that there was no miscarriage of justice and the principles of law have been correctly borne in mind, the facts had been properly comprehended in that light.
It may be mentioned that the respondent No. 1 is the landlord of two premises which were quite adjacent as mentioned before.
This Court in Hari Shankar v. Rao Girdhari Lal Chowdhury, [1962] 1 Suppl.
This Court emphasised that the distinction between an appeal and revision is a real one.
SCR.
It recited that the partnership firm should be presently started at Ahmedabad and the same should later be started in another city.
11.  The Appellate Court had considered the partnership deeds.
Though the decree in the dissolution suit was not binding in these proceedings, inter se between the parties as partners it is a piece of evidence which cannot be wholly ignored.
The respondent had further alleged that the appellant No. 1 had closed the business and he was not using the said premises for the purpose for which it was let to him.
Such a view was not an impossible one or a perverse one.
It was submitted by Mr. Mehta that once it was accepted that the partnership deed was a mere camouflage the other subsequent acts and conducts were merely ancillary and were put in a formal way.
But there is nothing illegal about it.
It extended to corrections of all errors which would make the decision contrary to law.
The fact that the High Court would have taken a different view is wholly irrelevant.
Judged by that standard, we are of the opinion that the High Court in this case had exceeded its jurisdiction.
This view was reiterated by Chief Justice Beaumont, in Chimanram Motilal and another v. Jayantilal Chhaganlal and another, A.I.R. 1939 Bombay 410 1939 Indlaw MUM 155.
The High Court could not substitute its own finding for the one reached by the courts below on a reappraisal of evidence.
In the eye of law, such a clause is really non-sequitur or neutral proving neither the existence nor non-existence of a genuine firm.
But thereafter when the partnership deed Exhibit-69 was executed the appellant and his father joined the firm with an agreement to share profits only and their share was fixed at 0.03 paise in a rupee.
We are unable to agree.
There was a decree for possession.
In this view in our opinion the ambit of the power was expressed in rather wide amplitude.
4.   We are concerned in this appeal with only one of the premises which was involved in Suit No. 553 of 1969.
For this proposition see the decision of the Gujarat High Court in the case of Mehta Jagjivan Vanechand v. Doshi Vanechand Harakhchand and others, A.I.R. 1972 Gujarat 6 1970 Indlaw GUJ 68.
This principle was reiterated in Krishnawati v. Hans Raj, [1974] 2 S.C.R. 524 1973 Indlaw SC 208 which was dealing with section 39(2) of the Delhi Rent Control Act, 1958 in second appeal.
However, on account of the death of Khristi Girdharbhai Chimanlal on 1.2.61 and other reasons, the said partnership was dissolved from 8.9.61.
It must be such a decision which no reasonable man could have arrived at.
1.   Whether the appellant herein and his father had sublet the premises in question in or about 1960 in terms of section 13(1)(e) of the Bombay Rents, Hotel and Lodging House Rates Control Act, 1947 (hereinafter called the 'Rent Act') is' the question involved in this appeal by special leave from the judgment and order of the High Court of Gujarat dated 21st of August, 1979.
In 1965 some partners retired and the remaining four partners executed a fresh partnership deed Exhibit-117 on 1st April, 1965.
It was so in the Income Tax returns and assessments.
These were reappraised by the High Court.
The year of accounts of our partnership shall be Aso Vadi 30th day i.e. Diwali and the first account year is decided to be the Aso Vadi 30th day of Samvat Year 2017.
Sharing of profits and contributing to losses were not the only elements in a partnership, existence of agency was essential and whether there was a partnership or not is a mixed question of law and fact, depending upon the varying circumstances in different cases.
It was registered in the name of 7th and 8th partners, Girdharlal who was the appellant and his father.
The power to hear a revision is generally given to a superior court so that it may satisfy itself that a particular case is decided according to law.
A right to appeal carries with it right of re-heating on law as well as fact, unless the statute conferring the right to appeal limits the re-hearing in some way.
Bhagwati, J. as the learned Chief Justice then was, referred with approval the observations of Hidayatullah, J. referred to hereinbefore in Hari Shankar's case 1961 Indlaw SC 157 (supra).
To decide this, facts must be referred to.
Ramaswami, J. in Mohammed Musa Sahib (dead) and others v. N.K. Mohammed Ghouse Sahib and another, A.I.R. 1959 Madras 379 1958 Indlaw MAD 820 observed that whether the relation of partnership between two or more persons does or does not exit must depend on the real intention and contract of the parties and not merely on their expressed intention.
16.   The question is, can the High Court do so in law.
It was recited that the work of the partnership would be done by the parties of the fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh and eighth as per advice and instructions of the first, second and third.
Lastly, such a decision does not lead to a miscarriage of justice.
It accordingly decreed the suit for possession instituted by the landlord.
It is true that since after 4th of October, 1960 the partnership firm was carrying on business in the premises in question.
20.  It was sufficient for the rent court to proceed on the finding that the appellant and S were living together as husband and wife, whether they were legally married or not.
shall be carried to Reserve Fund and thereafter, in the sum that remains as net profit, the shares of us the partners have been fixed as under: 7.
The amending provision, therefore, only related to procedure and not to any rights of the parties.
These deeds were there, the partners were crossexamined, there was no specific evidence as to from what date the firm started functioning from the particular premises in question.
This view had also been expressed in the decision of this Court in Puranchand v. Motilal, [1963] Supp. 2 S.C.R. 906 1962 Indlaw SC 455.
It is further stated that he had filed a civil suit to dissolve the partnership and to take account and his suit was pending in City Civil Court.
26.   If that was so, there was nothing that could be clone about such a view, within the ambit and scope of the power of section 29(2) of the Rent Act.
" 18.   It was held in the majority judgment by HidayatuIIah, J. as the learned Chief Justice then was, that though section 35 of the Delhi and Ajmer Rent Control Act was worded in general terms but it did not create a right to have the case re-heard.
