As against that the RTS Revision No.330 of 2001 was preferred.
However, in the facts of the conflicting claims, the Appellant made grievance to the Deputy Collector and the Deputy Custodian of Evacuee Properties in respect of the Mutation made in favour of the Respondent Gulabai and other Respondents and, therefore, by order dated 18.9.1984 the Deputy Collector and Deputy Custodian of Evacuee Properties, Pune, directed the Sub-Divisional Officer, Haveli Sub Division to take up the case in revision under Section 257 of Maharashtra Land Revenue Code and pass necessary orders.
By mutation entry No.2377 the name of respondent was again mutated in the record and by the mutation Entry No.2394 the name of Genu Kadu was mutated in the record.
The language and the words used in the said provision suggest that jurisdiction of the State Government is concurrent with the jurisdiction of other Revenue officers in deciding the revision.
The said revision was decided by the Sub Divisional officer at Maval on 28.1.2000 and those mutations were cancelled.
It was again decided by the Sub Divisional Officer on 29.10.1987 and the said mutation was set aside.
Considering the entire scheme of the Code, and the provisions contained in Sections 257 and 259, we are of the definite opinion that the Minister concerned of the State Government can entertain second revision to satisfy the legality and propriety of the order passed by the Revenue Officer.
The Revenue Minister allowed the said proceeding and set aside the orders passed by the Sub Divisional Officer, Maval dated 28.1.2000, order dated 28.5.2001 of Additional Collector, Pune and of Additional Commissioner dated 22.11.2001, and thus, restored the position as reflected by the Mutation Entries Nos.1836 and 2377 and 2394.
Dismissing Letter Patents Appeal preferred by the appellant against the order of the learned Single Judge who dismissed his writ petition and confirmed the orders passed by the State Minister for Revenue in the proceeding R.T.S.3402/ Pra.kra.309/L-6 dated 18th October, 2002.
Before parting with the order, we must make it clear that in view of the request made by the appellant before the High Court not to enter into the merit of the case since the party may prosecute their remedies in the Civil Court for adjudication, we have not expressed any opinion with regard to the merit of the case of the parties.
As against that the RTS proceeding bearing No.3402 /Pra.
In view of these directions, the Sub-Divisional Officer, Haveli, Sub Division, Pune, initiated proceeding RTS Revision 14 of 1984 and by order dated 30.7.1985 cancelled the mutation Entry No.1836 which comprises land admeasuring 7897 sq. yards and directed necessary corrections in the record as per the observations made in the order.
Section 2(31) defines the Revenue Officer as under:- "2 (31)" revenue officer" means every officer of any rank whatsoever appointed under any of the provisions of this Code, and employed in or about the business of the land revenue or of the surveys, assessment, accounts, or records connected therewith; " 19.
It will further reveal that the appeals as against the RTS Revision No.14 of 1984 was preferred by the parties in view of the provisions of Section 247 and 249 sub-section 2.
(3)Unless the State Government directs otherwise, all other Revenue Officers Including survey officers shall be subordinated, the one to the other, in such order as the State Government may direct.
The only question that falls for consideration is as to whether a second revision under Section 257 is maintainable and that whether the State Government exceeds its jurisdiction in entertaining the second revision? 17.
Section 257 makes it clear that a revisional authority has to consider only the legality and propriety of the decision.
From reading of the aforesaid provisions, it is manifest that the State Government makes appointment of the Revenue Officers including the Commissioner and the Chief Controlling Authorities in the revenue matters.
The State Government shall appoint a Commissioner of each division; and may appoint in a division an Additional Commissioner and so many Assistant Commissioners as may be expedient, to assist the Commissioner: Provided that, nothing in this section shall preclude the appointment of the same officer as Commissioner for two or more divisions.
(2) Unless the State Government directs otherwise, all revenue officers in a division shall be subordinate to the Commissioner, and all revenue Officers 2[in a district (including the City of Bombay)] shall be subordinate to the Collector.
All these proceedings will show that twice the Sub-Divisional Officer has exercised the revisional power under Section 257 at the directions of the Collector, namely the RTS Revision No.14 of 1984 and RTS Revision No.12 of 1999.
Since the Collector noticed on complaint that the orders of the Collector has been bypassed or surpassed by the Subordinate Revenue Officers, the Collector by order dated 12.7.1999 directed the SDO to take these mutations namely mutation Entry No.2377 and 2394 in revision and therefore the Sub-Divisional Officer, Maval Division has taken these mutations in revision bearing RTS Revision No.12 of 1999.
Before we proceed to decide the aforesaid question, we would like to refer the relevant provisions of the Maharashtra Land Revenue Code 1966.
The aforesaid provision makes it clear that even if the decision is considered to be final, the State Government's power to call for and examine the record and proceedings of subordinate officers is saved.
Further, in view of the fact that State Government itself appoints the Revenue officers including the Commissioner under the scheme of the Code and all Revenue officers are subordinate to the State Government as per Section 11 of the Act, and even the Chief Controlling Authority in all matters connected with the land revenue in his Division is vested with the Commissioner, they are subject to the superintendence, direction and control of the State Government as provided under Section 5 of the Code.
Provided that, the State Government or such officer shall not vary or reverse any order affecting any question of right between private persons without having to the parties interested notice to appear and to be heard in support of such order.
The same was dismissed.
The Division Bench observed thus: "...We record our finding that under Section 257 of the Maharashtra Land Revenue Code more than one revision is possible.
Learned counsel referring the revisional jurisdiction of the High Court under Section 115 of the Code of Civil Procedure tried to impress us that when the power of revision is given to the District Judge, then the High Court cannot entertain second revision petition under Section 115 of the Code.
From perusal of the entire scheme of the Code including Section 257, it is manifest that the revisional powers are not only exercisable by the State Government but also by certain other Revenue officers.
Learned counsel submitted that Section 257 expressly confers power of revision on the State Government which power is coupled with power of control and superintendence.
The only point raised before the High Court was with regard to the maintainability of second revision before the State Government under Section 257 of the Revenue Code.
(1) In the absence of any express provisions of this Code, or of any law for the time being in force to the contrary, an appeal shall lie from any decision or order passed by a revenue or survey officer specified in column 1 of the Schedule E under this Code or any other law for the time being in force to the officer specified in column 2 of that Schedule whether or not such decision or order may itself have been passed on appeal from the decision of order of the officer specified in column 1 of the said Schedule.
Sub-section (2) of Section 124 provides that if the decision or order is made by the Registrar, appeal lies to the Government and if the decision or order is made by any other person, or a cooperative society, the appeal lies to the Registrar.
We find no infirmity in the impugned order passed by the High Court.
Chief Controlling authority in revenue matters.
It was submitted by the counsel that Section 128 related to two authorities i.e. the State Government and the Registrar.
Appellant challenged the order dated 19.10.2002 passed by the Minister by filing a writ petition, which was dismissed by learned Single Judge of the Bombay High Court.
In the alternative, learned Senior counsel submitted that even if it were to be admitted without prejudice that second revision is maintainable, the Minister being the revisional authority should not have interfered with the findings recorded by all the six Revenue Authorities.
In the impugned order, Division Bench made it clear that since the dispute between the parties was in respect of the area, as to what has been purchased in auction sale by Gulabai Desai and what is the area allotted to the Appellant by the orders of the Deputy Collector and Deputy Custodian of Evacuee Properties, the Appellant requested the Bench not to enter into the merits on this question in this LPA since the parties may prosecute their remedies in the Civil Court for such adjudication, and therefore, that aspect was not considered by the High Court.
Provided further that, an Assistant of Deputy Collector shall not himself pass such order in any matter in which a formal inquiry has been held, but shall submit the record with his opinion to the Collector, who shall pall such order thereon as he may deem fit.
