In view of the aforesaid definition of the word "dowry" any property or valuable security should be given or agreed to be given either directly or indirectly at or before or any time after the marriage and in connection with the marriage of the said parties.
In her statement under Section 161 Cr.
The learned Sessions Judge framed charges under Sections 498-A, 304-B read with Section 34 IPC and Section 306 read with Section 34 IPC against both the appellants.
There he saw that Bhimabai was lying dead and froth was coming out of her mouth which indicated that she had consumed some poisonous substance.
PW.
P.C. which was recorded very next day of the incident i.e. on 16 September 1991 she did not state that cause of ill-treatment was "a demand for money and a consequent beating".
Appeal allowed.
The last time she visited her parental home was during the festival of Nag Panchami and at that time she looked depressed.
We do not consider it necessary to examine this question.
He then went to village Palshi along with other persons of his family where he reached after sun set.
She also told her parents that her husband had asked her to bring an amount of Rs.1,000-1,200 for the purpose of household expenses and manure.
Her father PW.1 Tukaram along with some of his relatives went to the house of the accused and tried to persuade them not to ill-treat Bhimabai.
Section 2 of Dowry Prohibition Act reads as under :- "2.
The appellant No. 2 is on bail.
The appeal preferred by the appellants was dismissed by the High Court by the judgment and order dated 23 February 2005.
A demand for money on account of some financial stringency or for meeting some urgent domestic expenses of for purchasing manure cannot be termed as a demand for dowry as the said word is normally understood.
13.
12.
" 11.
10.
9.
8.
" 7.
6.
5.
4.
3.
2.
1.
He has submitted that the insecticide Thimet is extensively used by the farmers for preservation of crop and is kept stored in their houses and it could be a case where Thimet accidentally got mixed with some food item and was consumed by Bhaimabai.
(See Union of India v. Garware Nylons Ltd., AIR (1996) SC 3509 1996 Indlaw SC 2404 and Chemicals and Fibres of India v. Union of India, AIR (1997) SC 558 1991 Indlaw SC 861).
I cannot assign any reason why police did not write about it in my statement.
The prosecution in order to establish its case examined six wintesses and filed some documentary evidence.
The Police Patil of the village PW.3 Sandu Mohanrao Patil lodged an accidental death report at 9.00 p.m. on 15 September 1991 at the police station.
He has also deposed that it was after about 1-1/2 years of marriage that Bhimabai first complained to him about the harassment being caused to her.
The viscera were preserved for chemical analysis.
He shall be released forthwith unless wanted in some other case.
Being a penal provision it has to be strictly construed.
Whenever Bhimabai came to her parental home, she used to complain that for some domestic reasons she was being harassed.
The post-mortem examination on the body of deceased Bhimabai was conducted by a team of two doctors of Department of Forensic Medicine and Toxicology, Medical College, Aurangabad, namely, Dr. S.M. Jawale and Dr. H.V. Godbole on 16 September 1991.
In his cross-examination, he admitted that he did not make detailed enquiries as to what was the cause of death and where the incident had taken place.
PW.5 Sumanbai is the mother of the deceased Bhimabai.
Two essential ingredient of Section 304-B IPC, apart from others, are (i) death of women is caused by any burns or bodily injury or occurs otherwise than under normal circumstances, and (ii) women is subjected to cruelty or harassment by her husband or any relative of her husband for, or in connection with, any demand for "dowry".
It has been held in State of Andhra Pradesh v. Thadi Narayan, AIR (1962) SC 240 1961 Indlaw SC 171 that Section 423(1)(b)(i) of Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898 (which corresponds to Section 386(b)(i) of Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973) is clearly confined to cases of appeals preferred against orders of conviction and sentence, the powers conferred by this clause cannot be exercised for the purpose of reversing an order of acquittal passed in favour of a party in respect of an offence charged, in dealing with an appeal preferred by him against the order of conviction in respect of another offence charged and found proved.
It is well settled principle of interpretation of Statute that if the Act is passed with reference to a particular trade, business or transaction and words are used which everybody conversant with that trade, business or transaction knows or understands to have a particular meaning in it, then the words are to be construed as having that particular meaning.
The appellants pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.
The case of the prosecution futher is that in the evening of 15 September 1991 a person came from village Palshi on a motorcycle and informed PW.1 Tukaram that Bhimabai was unwell.
He has deposed that in the marriage he had given Rs. 20,000 as dowry.
In his cross- examination he has admitted that when he had gone to village Palshi to talk with the appellants regarding the ill-treatment being meted out to Bhimabai, there was no talk regarding monetary giving and taking.
There used to be some bickering in the marital life of Bhimabai and her husband on trifling matters.
After completion of investigation, charge sheet was submitted against the appellants and in due course, the case was committed to the Court of Sessions.
The doctors did not find any sign of external or internal injury on the body of the deceased and in their opinion, the cause of death was insecticide poisoning.
Initially, Bhimabai was treated well for about six months, but thereafter the appellants started ill-treating her.
:- "Que:- What do you mean by "domestic cause"? Ans.:- What I meant was that there was demand for money for defraying expenses of manure etc.
P.C. The evidence shows that the accused come from very humble background and they could not have exerted any kind of influence, financial or otherwise, upon the police so as to manage a statement favourable to them when in the course of investigation the statements of witnesses were being recorded under Section 161 Cr.
