Accordingly, there cannot be a merger of a lease and a mortgage in respect of the same property since neither of them is a higher or lesser estate than the other.
Question (2): 13.
If any suit instituted in any Civil Court involves any issues which are required to be settled, decided or dealt with by any authority competent to settle, decide or deal with such issues under this Act (hereinafter referred to as the 'competent authority') the Civil Court shall stay the suit and refer such issues to such competent authority for determination.
Section 85A, as it stood before the amendment of this Act by Gujarat Act No.5 of 1973 w.e.f. 3rd March, 1973: "85A. (1).
As seen from the above observations this Court has held that it did not think that the section concerned says or intends to say that the plea of the defendant will determine or change the forum.
Section 70 of the BT & AL Act to which we have adverted already imposes a duty on the Mamlatdar to decide whether a person is an agriculturist or a tenant or a protected tenant or a permanent tenant when such person claims to be so under that Act.
In this regard support was sought from the decision of this Court in Raizada Topandas and Another v. M/s. Gorakhram Gokalchand.
Court, it also made a preliminary decree in favour of the plaintiff for redemption of the suit properties.
Appeal dismissed.
In support thereof, he sought to place reliance on the decisions of this Court in Shah Mathuradas Maganlal and Co. v. Nagappa Shankarappa Malaga and Others 1976 Indlaw SC 400 and Gambangi Appalaswamy Naldu and Others v. Behara Venkataramanayya Patro.
A lease of immoveable property determines - (a) .... (b) .... (c) .... (d) in case the interests of the lessee and the lessor in the whole of the property become vested at the same time in one person in the same right ..... " Bombay Tenancy and Agricultural Lands Act,1948(Bombay Tenancy and Agricultural Lands Act,1948 ).
Even otherwise.
" 17.
" 11.
If the jurisdiction is only one relating to territorial limits or pecuniary limits, the plaint will be ordered to be returned for presentation to the proper court.
Does the lease-hold of a tenant (lessee) in a property merge in mortgage security if the same property is given by the landlord (lessor) to the tenant (lessee) as a mortgage security under a mortgage by conditional sale, as would debar the tenant from desisting the suit of the landlord - mortgagor for recovery of possession of such property by obtaining a decree for redemption of the mortgage ? (2).
Dealing with the matter this Court referred.
18.
The appellants, despite being asked not to visit the shop after the expiry of the period in the concerned agreement, they continued to visit the shop and were preventing the respondent from having access to its various articles such as stock-in-trade, books of account, furniture, fixtures etc.
10.
No order of the Mamlatdar, the Tribunal, the Collector or the Maharashtra Revenue Tribunal or the State Government made under this Act shall be questioned in any Civil or Criminal Court".
The Transfer of Property Act, 1882 (TP Act) "111.
That suit was resisted by the defendants, each of them having filed separate written statements which in sub- stance did not differ from each other.
20.
19.
" 16.
15.
14.
" 12.
(2).
(2).
(1).
"2.
7.
6.
5.
4.
3.
2.
1.
1974 Indlaw GUJ 88.
It does not invest those courts with exclusive power to try questions of title such as questions as between the rightful owner and a trespasser or a licensee, for such questions do not arise under the Act.
when one has regard to the provisions in Part II it seems reasonably clear that the exclusive jurisdiction conferred by S.28 is really dependent on an existing or previous relationship of landlord and tenant and on claims arising under the Act as between such parties.
The defence in those written statements was that defendant-l and his family members had become tenants of the suit properties in the year 1959-1960 and had continued to be such tenants at the time of mortgage deeds executed in respect of those properties in the year 1961 and thereafter.
Consequently, the Judgment and Order under appeal does not call for our interference.
If ... he frames his suit in a manner not warranted by the facts, and goes for his relief to a court which cannot grant him relief on the true facts, he will have his suit dismissed.
Thus, the provisions in the BT & AL Act give no scope or room to think that the plea of tenancy if raised by the defendants in a suit in a Civil Court, the same could be decided by the Civil Court.
Hence, the Judgment and Order of the High Court, according to him, was liable to be interfered with and set aside.
The only question which arose for decision in Topandas case 1963 Indlaw SC 379 (supra) was whether on a proper interpretation of section 28 of the Bombay Rents, Hotel and Lodging House Rates Control Act, 1947 - "the Rents Control Act", the Court of Small Causes, Bombay had exclusive jurisdiction in dealing with the suit out of which the appeal had arisen.
It is well-settled that.
We find it difficult to accept the said argument and the aforesaid decision of this Court relied upon in support thereof can render no assistance.
However, learned counsel appearing for the defendants - respondents sought to refute the arguments advanced on half of the plaintiff- appellant.
There, the respondent - a partnership firm was in possession as a tenant of a shop at Mulji Jetha Market, Bombay.
The agreement was to remain in force for a period of four years.
In the case of a lease, the estate that is outstanding in the lessor is the reversion; in the case of a mortgage, the estate that is outstanding is the equity of redemption of the mortgagor.
to the general principle which covers the question of jurisdiction at the inception of suits which was not disputed, thus: "The plaintiff chooses his forum and files his suit.
Questions which arise for our consideration and decision in the light of the aforesaid arguments of learned counsel for the contesting parties admit of their formulations thus: (1).
A person lawfully cultivating any land belonging to another person shall be deemed to be a tenant if such land is not cultivated personally by the owner and if such person is not - (a) A member of the owner's family, or (b) A servant on wages payable in cash or kind but not in crop share or a hired labourer cultivating the land under the personal supervision of the owner or any member of the owner's family, or (c) A mortgagee in possession." "70.
In the result, we dismiss this appeal with costs.
Shah Mathuradas case 1976 Indlaw SC 400 (supra) was that where the respondent had executed a mortgage in favour of the appellant respecting a premises of which he was a tenant.
1963 Indlaw SC 379 He, therefore, urged that the High Court was not justified in upsetting the concurrent finding of the trial court and the appellate court that the defendants failed to prove their tenancy and remanding the case to the trial court directing it to refer the issue of tenancy to the Mamlatdar and stay the suit till the receipt of the finding in that regard from the Mamlatdar and then dispose of the suit.
In any event, it was not the case of the plaintiff that defendant-l was a tenant of the suit properties and hc surrendered his possession of the suit properties either expressly or impliedly and the possession so obtained by the plaintiff was re-delivered to defendant-l in pursuance of the mortgages by conditional sale executed in his favour.
If that be so, merger of lease-hold estate in reversion cannot arise, inasmuch as, there cannot be any inconsistency or incompatibility in one person being the tenant and also the mortgagee of the same property, for in that event instead of the tenant paying rent to the landlord he may adjust it against the amount claimable by him as a mortgagee from the landlord.
We shall now proceed to deal with the aforesaid questions.
On the basis of findings so recorded by the Civil.
According to him when the plaintiff had not admitted that the defendants were tenants of the suit properties, it was not open to the defendants to force the plaintiff who had a right to choose his forum to file a suit to go before another forum on the plea that jurisdiction lay before another forum, that is, Mamlatdar.
The interpretation canvassed for by the appellants will give rise to anomalous results; for example, the defendant may in every case force the plaintiff to go to the Court of Small Causes and secondly, if the Court of Small Causes finds against the defendant's plea, the plaint may have to be returned for presentation to the proper court for a second time.
The plaint averments were that appellant- 1 (defendant- 1) had appointed the respondent as his commission agent for the sale of the appellants' cloth in the shop in question.
for a merger to arise, it is necessary that lesser estate and a higher estate should merge in one person at one and the same time and in the same right and no interest in the property should remain outstanding.
Thus we are constrained to answer the question in the negative by agreeing with the view expressed by the single Judge of the High Court in this regard in his Judgment and Order under appeal.
If he establishes the correctness of his facts he will get his relief from the forum chosen.
What is enunciated in section 111 (d) of the T.P. Act cannot be doubted is the doctrine of merger.
Coming to G. Appalaswamy case 1984 Indlaw SC 314 (supra) which considered the question whether a sitting tenant who took property by a possessory or usufructuary mortgage in his favour was liable to deliver physical possession upon redemption to the mortgagor (former lessor).
Though the defendants filed an appeal in the Court of the District Judge, Baroda against the said preliminary decree that appeal came to be dismissed on August 17, 1972 affirming the judgment and decree of the Civil Court.
If it is found, on a trial on the merits so far as this issue of jurisdiction goes, that the facts alleged by the plaintiff are not true and the facts alleged by the defendants are true, and that the case is not cognizable by the. court, there will be two kinds of orders to be passed.
Lease- hold held by a tenant or a lessee being a lesser estate and the right of reversion of the landlord (lessor) being a higher estate, the lessee's lease-hold right in respect of the property merges in reversion when that right of reversion, i.e., the landlord's (lessor's) right of reversion comes to the tenant or lessee which happens when the landlord having a right to sell his reversion to the tenant holding the lease-hold sells the whole of it to the tenant (lessee).
It instituted a suit in the Bombay City Civil Court (not the Court of Small Causes, Bombay) praying for a declaration that it was in lawful possession of the shop and the appellants had no right to enter into or remain in possession of the shop and for grant of an injunction restraining the appellants from interfering with the respondent's possession.
