It may be mentioned that in respect of the 160 acres of land of' the Illom which were occupied by the appellant's father and the appellant, there was a dispute between the Illom and the Travancore State from about 1848.
The Board, however, agreed with what was apparently the view of both Courts in India that under the circumstances of this case, as already set forth, by the law of India, which they appear to have correctly interpreted, the Government officials were in possession "not as mere trespassers" but under such a colour of title that the buildings erected by them on the land ought not to be included in the valuation as having become the property of the landowner.
It was further held that the greater part of the improvements were affected by the appellant after the proceedings in the L.C. Case No. 112 of 1100 M.E. were stayed, as such it cannot be said that these improvements could have been effected in good faith.
It appears that the Government had resolved to acquire the land in question and other lands and by arrangement with certain of the sutidars it took possession of such land, including a portion which was in the occupation of the appellant.
But the learned advocate for the appellant submits that it was not his case nor is it under the general law necessary for a person who trespassed on the land to trespass with a claim of bona fide title.
It may be stated that the finding that the possession of the appellant ,commenced after his application for registration was rejected in 1919, and the improvements, if any must have been effected only thereafter with full knowledge that the title to the lands was in dispute between the Illom and the Government, is unassailable.
It is then contended that even if trees are not included in section 9 and no notice of forfeiture is necessary, under the general law even a trespasser on the land, whether bona fide or not, is entitled to compensation or damages for the improvements made by him on the land We have already agreed with the Trial Court and the High Court that the appellant was not a bona fide trespasser.
In these circumstances, the question that would arise for determination is whether the trees come within the description of "other product raised on the land".
Both the Assistant Judge and the High Court negatived the claim of the appellant.
Thereafter the suit filed by the Illom was dismissed on 28-6-1109 (February 10, 1934).
No doubt in the evidence of the plaintiff P.W. 1 states that he was evicted from the lands without giving him an opportunity to remove the improvements, and in cross-examination he was asked whether he was not given any notice prior to the dispossession and he said that certainly no notice was, received.
It was conceded before the Trial Court and no attempt was made to establish anything to the contrary before the High Court that no notice of forfeiture as required under section 9 was given to the appellant.
in it has been held that the appellant was not a mere trespasser and had deliberately entered upon the lands knowing full well that he had no right, claim or title to the lands or had in any manner a right to enter the land and has been rightly evicted as a trespasser, he cannot now be permitted to raise this contention before us.
At the time of the distress the sum of pound 281.6 section was due from the plaintiffs to the defendant for rent in respect of the nursery ground.
an order his right to the value of those trees had to be adjudged and paid.
There is nothing stated by him that he had no opportunity to cut trees and take them away.
In the view we have taken, the appeal has no substance and is accordingly dismissed with no order as to costs, but the court fee will be recovered from the appellant.
In these circumstances he cannot be said to be a bona fide trespasser particularly after he had applied to the Government for obtaining .a registration in his name on the basis that it was Government land.
As the suit of the illom had been finally disposed of and the title of' the Illom to the lands was not established, the appellant apprehending that he might be ejected in the above L.C. Case filed a suit No. O.S. 156 of 1103 M.E. (1927-28 A.D.) in the District Court at Quilon against the respondent to establish his right and title to the said 160 acres and in the adjoining Cherikkal lands in his possession.
It may, however, include the fruit of the trees.
Before the Privy Council it was contended on behalf of the appellant that in the various cases relied upon, there was at least some genuine claim or belief in the party erecting the buildings that he had a title to do so, even though he was eventually held to be a trespasser; and it was urged that no such claim or belief existed in that case, in which it was said the Government without any pretence of a right, tortuously invaded the appellant's property and proceeded to deal with it as their own.
This finding is fortified by section 5 of the Act which provides that from and after the commencement of the Act it shall not be lawful for any person to occupy land which is the property of the Government whether Poramboke or not without the permission from the Government or such officer of the Government as may be ,empowered in that behalf.
Another reason for disallowing the compensation for trees given by the High Court was that the position of a trespasser-whether he be a mere trespasser or a trespasser under a bona fide claim of title--cannot be better than that of a tenant, and that if this is correct, then the appeal has to be dismissed on the short ground that there is no principle of law or equity which requires the payment of compensation in respect of trees, the ownership of which was all along, or at any rate from the dale of the trespasser's dispossession, vested in the State.
The appellant's claim after he was evicted cannot, on the same parity of reasoning, be held to be valid.
The contention of the appellant that the trees which are the subject-matter of the appeal should have been forfeited by an order passed under section 9 of the Act and in the absence of such.
It was stated that according to the practice prevailing in the erstwhile State of Travancore the cultivators could enter into unoccupied waste lands belonging to the janmies with the object of cultivating and improving them, and as they held the lands under them by paying rent, the consent of the Jemies to such occupation was implied.
In the circumstances the question that had to be considered was whether without an order of forfeiture being passed, the respondent could forfeit the improvements.
In support of this contention he has referred us to the leadings contained in paragraph-3 of the plaint in which it is stated : "The improvements effected by the plaintiff have a value of Rs. 2 lakhs as per the accounts shown below.
The appellant, pursuant to this order, was dispossessed from the lands and possession of these lands was given to the second defendant Nair Service Society Ltd. in August 1939.
Against that order a Civil Miscellaneous Appeal No. 206 of 1110 M.E. (1934-35 A.D.) was filed in the High Court of Travancore.
On these findings it was observed that the Government were in a position, by law at any rate, to regularize their possession by such a notification a fact which becomes material when it has to be considered what the nature of the trespass is.
The respondent also averred that it had not taken possession of any crops or movables as stated in the, plaint and that the movables found in the building were attached for the realisation of arrears of fine etc.
not applicable in India but that is not to say that a wrongful trespasser can plant trees on someone else's land and claim a right to those trees after he is evicted.
In view of this specific provision the contravention of which is punishable under section 6 thereof, his conduct in applying for registration and for getting himself impleaded in the suit of the Illom against the Government, would show that he knew that the land was Government land or land in which the Government had a claim.
