I do not think that any problem would arise for interpretation of the award.
Similarly, the same words "to each employee" after the figure "100" were omitted.
Dearness allowance became payable at 10% of the basic wage subject to a minimum of Rs. 50/ and house rent allowance at 30% of the basic salary.
In our opinion Civil Appeal No. 2299 of 1979 should be dismissed in its entirety.
However, this is not clearly mentioned anywhere in the award due to accidental slip or omission.
It may be mentioned that only from that point of view viz. to grant flat increase of Rs. 150/- and of Rs. 100/- to the employees in the category of Draftsmen and the other categories respectively that a burden statement was called for from the company and the same was submitted (vide exhibit C-51).
It must be a mistake or error amenable to clerical correction only.
(ii) Employees who have completed 4 years of service as on 1st January, 1976, 2 increments.
The comparative table of existing pay scales and the revised pay scales has been reproduced earlier.
They served a Charter of Demands in July, 1974, on the appellant, and as their demands were not accepted and conciliation proceedings proved fruitless, the State Government made a reference of the dispute under section 10(1) (d), Industrial Tribunal, Maharashtra for adjudication.
22.  I shall now consider Civil Appeal No. 2300 of 1979 filed by the workmen.
The fitment has also to be done only after the flat increase is added to the present basic salary of each employee.
2.  Tata Consultant Engineers, at its inception, was a partnership firm but subsequently the partnership was dissolved and in 1974 the undertaking became one of the divisions of Tata Sons Limited.
When the award is sent for publication, a necessary corrigendum be made in the award and the aforesaid words after the figures Rs. 150/- and Rs. 100/- be added.
In the result both the appeals are dismissed without any order as to costs.
" 17.  No ad hoc increase to the pay of each individual workman was intended.
The profits have increased all along.
They are considerations which cannot be ignored.
A similar statement was prepared on the basis of the employees' strength as in September, 1978.
Therefore, they filed an application before the Tribunal for correcting the award so as to bring out what was intended.
Nothing those facts, the Tribunal observed that compared with the increased paying capacity of the appellant, an inference drawn from the prosperity enjoyed by the appellant over the years, there was definite need for revising the wage scales.
It functions as a consulting organisation and a service industry, and does not manufacture any product or carry on trade.
8.  Two days after the award was made, an application was made by the Union stating: "In the said award, your Honour has observed, at the end of para 22, "In view of the increase that is being allowed in the basic pay, I do not propose to revise the existing scheme of Dearness Allowance.
" It also observed that the category of Draughtsmen needed a special increase.
Since the award has been already signed, I do not think anything further can be added to this award".
It is an accepted principle that consent by a party cannot confer jurisdiction on a court.
Further, it appears that the Tribunal intended to grant the increase of Rs. 150/- to each draughtsman and Rs. 100/- to all other workmen in their basic pay.
27.  On this application, the Advocate for the employer company made the following endorsement: "Submitted to whatever this Hon'ble Tribunal desires to do".
I will; therefore, proceed on the ground that the present Company can bear the additional financial burden".
The Reference was numbered I. T. No. 292 of 1975.
Reference was made to the political uncertainty in Iran which had placed an appreciable part of the appellant's business in jeopardy and to various other factors, peculiar to an engineering consultancy business, beyond the appellant's control.
There was fierce competition also, it was asserted, from other similar organisations.
" 15.  The jurisdiction given to the Tribunal by rule 31 is closely circumscribed.
Sd/- K. N. Wani INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL.
We are unable to see how it can be held to be otherwise.
It cannot possibly be doubted that an Industrial Tribunal deciding upon the wage-scales of the employees of an establishment would have full liberty to propose ad-hoc increase of salaries as part of the revision of wages.
The application before the Tribunal was filed under Rule 31 of the Bombay Industrial Disputes Rules 1957, which is as follows: "A Board, Court, Labour Court, Tribunal or Arbitrator may, at any time, suo moto or on an application made by any of the parties concerned, may correct any clerical mistake or error arising from an accidental slip or omission in any proceedings, report, award or as the case may be, decision".
It decided also that there was no ground for deducting the notional value of gratuity.
This is further borne out from the trading results of the Company for the year 1968-69 to 1977.
The second contention of the appellant is entitled to succeed.
Again, if the flat increase is Rs. 65/- per month to the individual workmen of all categories, the additional load would total Rs. 4,97,772/-.
In the result, Civil Appeal No. 2299 of 1979 is allowed in part insofar that the order dated 22nd December, 1978 of the Industrial Tribunal, Maharashtra Bombay is quashed to the extent that it modifies the original award dated 20th December, 1978, and the corrigendum made consequent thereto is also quashed.
It rejected the demand of the Union for abolishing the Efficiency Bar, but the span of 15 years for earning increment was expanded in some grades to 20 years and some adjustments were also made in specific grades.
Reference was also made to Bengal Chemical & Pharmaceutical Works Limited v. Its Workmen [1969] 2 SCR 113 1968 Indlaw SC 183.
In so construing the statement, Exhibit C-51, the Tribunal has grievously erred.
For the purpose of determining the financial capacity of the appellant, the Tribunal followed Unichem Laboratories v. Their Workmen 1972 Indlaw SC 18(1) where it was held that the gross profits should be computed without making deductions on account of taxation, development rebate and depreciation.
Now, it is not a universal rule that the dearness allowance should in all cases be correlated with the cost of living index.
It was open to the Tribunal to adopt the position which it did.
The Union modified its demands but even the modified terms, according to the Tribunal, appeared to be on the high side inasmuch as the resulting total burden of Rs. 1.70 crores was much higher than the average profits could sustain.
It seems from a perusal of the document, Exhibit C-51, that it is a statement giving trial figures of the increased financial load on different bases.
" 9.  The Union prayed that the position may be clarified and the award corrected accordingly.
What is without jurisdiction will remain so.
In the case of several senior employees, the revised scale would yield but a very small and almost a token increase in the size of the pay packet whereas the junior employees would get a large benefit.
For some years to come this is likely to be one of the few Consulting Engineers who will be securing major contracts".
There was no separate dearness allowance until January, 1977 when it was introduced for the first time.
It also laid down the principle enabling the actual fitment of the workmen in their respective wage scales as on that date and also provided for the number of increments to which they would be entitled having regard to the period of completed service.
(iii) All other employees with more than one year's service shall be given one increment".
It must not be a mistake or error which calls for rectification by modification of the conscious adjudication on the issues involved.
On the other hand the endorsement reads as if there was tacit agreement on the part of the Company to the correction sought by the union.
The cost of living had gone on increasing from 1972 onwards and, as the Tribunal has found, the dearness allowance and house rent allowance made no appreciable impact in neutralising the increasing cost.
Individual workmen were not present to the mind of the Tribunal.
It must be remembered that although the wage scales were introduced as long ago as 1973 they were maintained at that level except for a slight revision some time thereafter.
In travelling outside and beyond the terms of the original award, the Tribunal has committed a jurisdictional error.
5.  The Tribunal took note of the elaborate scales of wages already existing in the wage structure of the appellant and decided "to modify the existing structure of the scales with flat increases in each category.
24.  CHINNAPPA REDDY, J. We have had the advantage of perusing the judgment prepared by our learned brother Pathak, J. we agree with him that Civil Appeal No. 2300 of 1979 should be dismissed.
There will be no explanation why the initial start of the revised pay scales has been increased by Rs. 150/- in the case of the category of Draughtsmen and Rs. 100/- in the case of other categories.
Considering the fitment of the workman in the revised scales, it was stated in the award that a workman found drawing a salary less than the beginning of the grade would be stepped up to the beginning of the grade and if his pay fell between two steps in the reclassified pay scales the basic pay was to be fixed at the step higher in the revised scale.
3.  The Union filed a statement before the Tribunal claiming an upward revision of the wage scales and dearness allowance and an increase from fifteen years to twenty years in the span for earning annual increments.
The question is what should be the extent of such burden?" At the end of paragraph 18 of the award the Tribunal said: A" mere reading of Exhibit U-15 will immediately dispel the misgivings about the future of the present company.
25.  We do not propose to give our reasons to the extent we are in agreement with Pathak, J. and we propose to state our reasons for the disagreement only.
It declared that the cumulative effect of an improved wage structure together with dearness allowance operating on a slab system would throw an impossible burden of about Rs. 1 crore on the financial capacity of the appellant.
1.  This appeal by special leave has been preferred by Tata Consultancy Engineers against an award dated 20th December, 1978 of the Industrial Tribunal, Maharashtra, Bombay revising the wage scales of certain categories of employees and granting various other benefits.
33.  Now, if, without any flat or ad hoc increase of salary, the workmen were to be fitted into the revised scales of pay, it would obviously result in serious anomalous situations.
The addition was integrated as a feature of the wage scales; it was not regarded as an addition to the pay of each individual workman.
