3.  On the aforementioned allegations, an order of detention was issued on 5.4.2005.
But, indisputably, those documents involving the civil court proceedings were not placed before the detaining authority.
Even in the earlier part of the impugned order of detention, i.e. detaining authority appears to have drawn his own conclusions.
It may be true that Appellant in his representation dated 14.06.2005 requested for showing him the original documents referred to or mentioned in the grounds of detention but then at least the xeroxed copies thereof should have been made available to him.
20.  So far as the question of non-placement of material documents before the detaining authority is concerned, we may notice the following dates: (i) By a letter dated 5.7.2002, the authorities of DRI stated that Appellant stood exonerated for earlier years after detailed examination.
On 20.12.2004, the authorities of the DRI stated that transactions after 11.10.2003 were not under scrutiny.
It may further be true that Appellant had remained in detention for the entire period but it is one thing to say that the writ of Habeas Corpus in this circumstances cannot issue but it is another thing to say that an order of detention is required to be quashed so as to enable the detainee to avoid his civil liabilities under SAFEMA as also protect his own reputation.
But the said information report was registered only on 6.4.2005 and not prior to the date of order of detention.
The self-inculpatory statements of Appellant and that of Prabhjot Singh were said to have been taken off the file.
If the documents were material so as to enable the detenue to make an effective representation which is his constitutional as also statutory right, non-supply thereof would vitiate the order of detention.
" 27.  We have been taken through the order of detention.
It would be reasonable to assume that if the District Magistrate of Burdwan was really and genuinely satisfied after proper application of mind to the materials before him that it was necessary to detain the petitioner with a view to preventing him from acting in a prejudicial manner, he would have acted with greater promptitude both in making the order of detention as also in securing the arrest of the petitioner, and the petitioner would not have been allowed to remain at large for such a long period of time to carry on his nefarious activities..." 16.  In Abdul Salam Alias Thiyyan S/o Thiyyan Mohammad, Detenu No. 962, General Prison, Trivandrum v. Union of India and Others [(1990) 3 SCC 15 1990 Indlaw SC 994] whereupon the learned Additional Solicitor General has placed strong reliance, this Court found that there had been potentiality or likelihood of prejudicial activities and, thus, or mere delay, as long as, it is explained, the court may not strike down the detention.
The company was to export products of alloy steel.
It is difficult for us to say that the detaining authority would have come to the subjective satisfaction solely on the strength of the confession attributed to the petitioner dated 7-11-1999, particularly because it was retracted by him.
If the same had not been done, not only the delay, in issuing the order of detention stood unexplained but also thereby the order itself would become vitiated.
Serajul v. State of West Bengal [(1975) 2 SCC 78 1974 Indlaw SC 475], this Court opined: "There was thus delay at both stages and this delay, unless satisfactorily explained, would throw considerable doubt on the genuineness of the subjective satisfaction of the District Magistrate, Burdwan recited in the order of detention.
However, when there is undue and long delay between the prejudicial activities and the passing of detention order, the court has to scrutinise whether the detaining authority has satisfactorily examined such a delay and afforded a tenable and reasonable explanation as to why such a delay has occasioned, when called upon to answer and further the court has to investigate whether the causal connection has been broken in the circumstances of each case.
17.  In the instant case, we have noticed hereinbefore that the authorities of DRI themselves categorically stated that the activities of Appellant after 11.10.2003 were not in question and in fact all the bank accounts were defreezed.
It has not been denied or disputed that even the xeroxed copies of the said documents had not been supplied to the detenue.
" The delay caused in this case in issuing the order of detention has not been explained.
11.  It was, therefore, difficult to appreciate why order of detention could not be passed on the basis of the materials gathered by them.
The statements of Appellant and Prabhjot Singh were noticed by the detaining authority.
Furthermore, the civil court proceedings were over on 19.11.2004.
But, we fail to understand as to why despite the fact that the proposal for detention was made on 2.12.2004, the order of detention was passed after four months.
If original of the said documents were not available, xeroxed copies thereof could have been made available to him.
Similarly when there is unsatisfactory and unexplained delay between the date of order of detention and the date of securing the arrest of the detenu, such a delay would throw considerable doubt on the genuineness of the subjective satisfaction of the detaining authority leading to a legitimate inference that the detaining authority was not really and genuinely satisfied as regards the necessity for detaining the detenu with a view to preventing him from acting in a prejudicial manner.
It is set aside accordingly and the order of detention passed against Appellant is quashed.
Demand of any or every document, however irrelevant it may be for the concerned detenu, merely on the ground that there is a reference thereto in the grounds of detention, cannot vitiate an otherwise legal detention order.
No hard and fast rule can be laid down in this behalf but what is essential is that the detenu must show that the failure to supply the documents before the meeting of the Advisory Board had impaired or prejudiced his right, however slight or insignificant it may be.
The very fact that he had referred to the said statements in ex tenso is itself a pointer to the fact that he had relied upon the said documents.
The Secretary concerned was obliged to place the same before the detaining authority.
Even the letter dated 23-4-1999 which reached the Secretary concerned at 3.00 p.m. on 26-4-1999 was much before the formal detention order dated 28-4-1999.
[See Sunila Jain v. Union of India and Another [(2006) 3 SCC 321 2006 Indlaw SC 65] 31.  In this case, the statements of Appellant and Prabhjot Singh, in our opinion, were material.
The question as regard delay in issuing the order of detention has been held to be a valid ground for quashing an order of detention by this Court in T.D. Abdul Rahman v. State of Kerala and others [AIR 1990 SC 225 1989 Indlaw SC 205] stating: "The conspectus of the above decisions can be summarised thus: The question whether the prejudicial activities of a person necessitating to pass an order of detention is proximate to the time when the order is made or the live-link between the prejudicial activities and the purpose of detention is snapped depends on the facts and circumstances of each case.
" 25.  In Ahamed Nassar v. State of Tamil Nadu and Others [(1999) 8 SCC 473 1999 Indlaw SC 778], this Court opined: "The question is not whether the second part of the contents of those letters was relevant or not but whether they were placed before the detaining authority for his consideration.
