Limited was changed to Infosys Technologies Pvt. Ltd. and thereafter on June 2, 1992, the name was changed to the present name, i.e. Infosys Technologies Limited.
Section 46 deals with the removal of a registered trade mark from the Register on the ground of non-use.
The appellant got the trade mark 'Infosys' registered in 1987 in classes 16 and 9 in connection with computer stationery, computer manuals, printed manual for computer instruction and teaching materials; computer hardwares, computer interface, computer peripherals, electronics telex interface and in 1988 in class 7 in connection with machine and machine tools and motors (not for land vehicles).
S.56.
In Hardie Trading Ltd 2003 Indlaw SC 756.
17.   We heard Mr. Akhil Sibal, learned counsel for the appellant and Mr. Vaibhav Gaggar, learned counsel for the first respondent at quite some length.
" 32.  We are afraid, this is hardly an objection about maintainability.
Appeals allowed
The IPAB in the impugned order held that the trade mark Nos. 475269, 475267 and 484837 have not been used by the appellant for more than a period of five years and one month and the appellant also failed to make out that it had been in manufacturing or trading of the goods for which it had taken Registration Nos. 475269, 475267 and 484837.
v. Sunniwite Products Ld.
The situations covered by this section include: (a) the contravention or failure to observe a condition for registration; (b) the absence of an entry; (c) an entry made without sufficient cause; (d) a wrong entry; and (e) any error or defect in the entry.
The ad-interim order was confirmed on November 29, 1996.
v. Omar Khayyam Wineries (Pvt.) Ltd. & Anr.(AIR 1977 Mad 166) 1976 Indlaw MAD 380 He also placed reliance upon some more decisions viz; Ritz Hotel Ltd. (1989) RPC 333), Philosophy Di Alberta Ferretti (2003 R.P.C. 15); Keystone Knitting Mills Trade Mark(1929 (1) Ch.
9.   The appellant opposed these applications on diverse grounds by filing counter affidavits.
That suit is said to be pending.
(2003) 11 SCC 92), this Court stated as follows: " The phrase "person aggrieved" is a common enough statutory precondition for a valid complaint or appeal.
The first respondent was incorporated and registered in September 1978 under the name of Jupiter Agencies Pvt.
45.   The question then arises, whether it is sufficient for the applicant to show that he is a person aggrieved when he makes his application or he must continue to remain a person aggrieved until such time as the rectification/removal application is finally decided.
In this regard, he relied upon a decision of the Madras High Court in Agha Hyder Hussain & Anr.
15.   In 2007, however, the first respondent filed a suit in the Court of Additional District Judge, Delhi for setting aside the decree dated November 10, 2004.
" We concur with the above statement.
764 to 766 of 2001) are restored to the file of Intellectual Property Appellate Board, Chennai for hearing and disposal afresh in accordance with law.
He argued that the appellant has not taken the plea of the first respondent not being a 'person aggrieved' with respect to filing of the applications for rectification before the IPAB; merely urging the plea that the first respondent has no locus standi in the written submissions before the IPAB is not sufficient.
D. 92) and Motor Terms Company Pty. Limited.
41.  In our considered view, it was.
The 1958 Act was repealed by the Trade Marks Act, 1999 (for short, 'the 1999 Act').
Compliance of Order XXXIX Rule 3 CPC within three days.
We respectfully agree.
Apart from it, on September 12, 2005 after hearing both parties, special leave was granted by this Court.
12.   Some more facts may be noticed.
v. Liberty Insurance Ltd.(1967 116 C.L.R. 177).
On September 13, 2000, the Calcutta High Court restrained the Department of Company Affairs and Registrar of Companies from incorporating any company bearing the name 'Infosys' without the permission of the appellant.
He contended that the first respondent is not shown to have ever traded or intended to trade in any goods covered by the appellant's registrations under Classes 7 and 16 and as such the first respondent is not a 'person aggrieved' with regard to the appellant's registrations under these two classes.
An applicant must therefore show that "in some possible way he may be damaged or injured if the trade mark is allowed to stand; and by 'possible' I mean possible in a practical sense, and not merely in a fantastic view.... All cases of this kind, where the original registration is not illegal or improper, ought to be considered as questions of common sense, to a certain extent, at any rate; and I think the applicants ought to show something approaching a sufficient or proper reason for applying to have the trade mark expunged.
In this regard, he relied upon M/s. Eagle Potteries Private Ltd. v. M/s. Eagle Flask Industries Pvt.
This section presupposes that the registration which was validly made is liable to be taken off by subsequent non-user.
The parties shall bear their own costs.
To be an aggrieved person under Section 46, he must be one whose interest is affected in some possible way; it must not be a fanciful suggestion of grievance.
(4) The tribunal, of its own motion, may, after giving notice in the prescribed manner to the parties concerned and after giving them an opportunity of being heard, make any order referred to in sub-section (1) or sub-section (2).
In response to the said notice the first respondent filed counter affidavit before this Court on March 11, 2005 wherein no specific objection about invocation of jurisdiction of this Court directly has been taken.
The Single Judge of the Madras High Court passed an interim restraint order on February 1, 2001 against the first respondent.
In that suit, the appellant also made an application for grant of temporary injunction.
The applications being TRA Nos. 25 to 27 of 2003 (OP Nos.
This is so because the pre-requisite for exercise of power under Section 46(1) is that the applicant is a person aggrieved.
Learned counsel, thus, submitted that the impugned order is unsustainable and liable to be set aside.
The phrase has been variously construed depending on the context in which it occurs.
Such type of actions are commenced for the "purity of the Register" which it is in public interest to maintain.
186  27  applicant, and if at the date of the trial he has no cause of complaint it seems to be monstrous to suppose that the Court will rectify the register at his instance when it can do him no good to rectify, and when the retention on the register can do him no harm merely because at the date of his application he may have had some grievance.
He submitted that appellant is primarily in service industry which is unregistrable under The 1958 Act and since the appellant is not trading in the goods in respect of which it is registered, it cannot be said that the mark of the appellant is distinctive of its goods.
The relevant statement made in the affidavit dated July 14, 2003 (we were informed that the date of the affidavit is July 14, 2004) reads as follows: " That in the meantime the defendant has already changed the Trade Mark namely "Jupiter International Ltd." in place of "Jupiter Infosys Ltd." The copy of the incorporation on change of name which was issued by the registrar of the Companies are being marked and annexed herewith as Annexure A. That now there is no dispute between the plaintiff and defendant under the Trade Mark.
It certainly is not sufficient reason that they are at loggerheads with the respondents or desire in some way to injure them".
He argued that in a case such as the present one since the allegations against the appellant relate to trafficking, squatting and non-user, the scope of 'person aggrieved' has to be enlarged.
Heard.
The High Court and the Joint Registrar fell into error in not drawing this distinction.
The non-user does not by itself render the entry incorrect but it gives a right to a person whose interest is affected to apply for its removal.
"Persons aggrieved" may also apply for cancellation or varying an entry in the Register relating to a certification trade mark to the Central Government in certain circumstances.
33.   The moot question which has been debated before us is whether or not, the first respondent is an aggrieved person.
Obviously, in the absence of any specific objection by the appellant to that effect, no specific issue was framed by the High Court whether the applicant was an aggrieved person.
(2) Where in relation to any goods in respect of which a trade mark is registered: (a) the circumstances referred to in clause (1) of sub- section (1) are shown to exist so far as regards non- use of the trade mark in relation to goods to be sold, or otherwise traded in, in a particular place in India (otherwise than for export from India), or in relation to goods to be exported to a particular market outside India; and (b) a person has been permitted under sub- section (3) of section 12 to register an identical or nearly resembling trade mark in respect of those goods under a registration extending to use in relation to goods to be so sold, or otherwise traded in, or in relation to goods to be so exported, or the tribunal is of opinion that he might properly be permitted so to register such a trade mark, on application by that person in the prescribed manner to a High Court or to the Registrar, the tribunal may impose on the registration of the first-mentioned trade mark such limitations as it thinks proper for securing that that registration shall cease to extend to such use.19 (3) An applicant shall not be entitled to rely for the purpose of clause (b) of sub-section (1) or for the purposes of sub-section (2) on any non-use of a trade mark which is shown to have been due to special circumstances in the trade and not to any intention to abandon or not to use the trade mark in relation to the goods to which the application relates.
" 34.   The position that emerges from the above provisions is this.
7.   In January 2001, the appellant filed yet another suit before the High Court of Judicature at Madras for permanent injunction restraining the first respondent from offering shares to the public as claimed in the Initial Public Offer (IPO) using 'Infosys'.
In the counter affidavit a very vague objection in the following terms was raised: "That the present petition apart from being false and misconceived lacks the necessary jurisdiction, hence deserves outright rejection.
Perused the averments made in the suit and application which are duly supported by documents on record.
