" There is no dispute that the respondent received the aforesaid letter as he sent a reply to the Superintending Engineer on April 20, 1974, a copy of which was annexed as Annexure 'J' by the petitioner, to his petition before the High Court.
The Division Bench further held that since the letter dated 24.4.1974 was not served on the respondent, there was no material to show that any warning had been issued to the respondent before he was discharged from service.
The object and purpose of the warning as contemplated by the Regulation,.
In the instant case the respondent failed to discharge this burden as he failed to place material before the Court to show that the endorsement made by the postal authorities was wrong and incorrect.
We expressed our view in the Court and suggested to Mr. Vimal Dave, counsel for the respondent, that if he agreed the original writ petition of the respondent could be dismissed without directing him to refund the amount which he had already been paid by the appellants in pursuance to the orders of the High Court and of this Court as during the pendency of the appeal, the appellants were directed by means of interim order of this Court to continue to pay salary to the respondent which was being paid to him regularly.
Regulation 113 confers wide powers on the authorities to summarily discharge an employee from service, if he continues to be absent from duty in an unauthorised manner and refuses to join his duty even after warning.
While he was posted at Surat as Deputy Engineer he was transferred to Ukai subdivision under the order of the Superintending Engineer dated 29th March, 1974.
Aggrieved, the appellant has preferred the instant appeal after obtaining special leave of this Court.
Since the respondent continued to be absent from duty the Superintending Engineer by a registered post acknowledgment due letter dated April 24, 1974 informed the respondent that his request to postpone his transfer was rejected and he was directed to join his duty at Ukai and on his failure to do so disciplinary action would be taken against him.
The Chief Engineer who discharged the respondent's services exercised his power under Service Regulation No. 113, which runs as under: "113.
We are, therefore, of the opinion that the letter dated 24.4.1974 was served on the respondent and he refused to accept the same.
After hearing learned counsel for the parties we were satisfied that the learned Single Judge as well as the Division Bench both had committed error in allowing the writ petition and granting relief to the respondent.
The substance of the Superintending Engineer's letter dated 18th April, 1974 which was admittedly served on the respondent, contained warning to the respondent, which fully met the requirement of Regulation No. 113.
It was further pleaded that the respondent had refused to accept the registered letter and the same had been returned back by the postal authorities with an endorsement that the addressee refused to accept the same.
No doubt the presumption is rebuttable and it is open to the party concerned to place evidence before the Court to rebut the presumption by showing that the address mentioned on the cover was incorrect or that the postal authorities never tendered the registered letter to him or that there was no occasion for him to refuse the same.
No party is entitled to get a case transferred from one Bench to the other, unless the Bench is biased or there are some reasonable grounds for the same, but no right to get a case transferred to any other Bench, can legitimately be claimed merely because the judges express opinion on the merits of the case on the conclusion of hearing.
A Division Bench of the High Court dismissed the appeal preferred by the Appellants but it allowed the respondent's appeal.
Transfer from one place to other is generally a condition of service and the employee has no choice in the matter.
We further hold that before issuing the order of discharge the respondent was not only warned but he was also afforded an opportunity to explain as to why disciplinary action should not be taken against him.
The hearing was adjourned to enable Sh.
But even otherwise, the Division Bench committed error in holding that the Board had raised the question of service of the letter dated 24.4.1974 for the first time before the Division Bench in the letters patent appeal.
The learned Single Judge granted a declaration in respondent's favour holding the order void and illegal but having regard to recalcitrant attitude of the appellant and his continued conduct of disobedience of the orders of his superior authorities, he refused to grant consequential reliefs regarding reinstatement or payment of back-wages.
If the order of transfer is not stayed, modified or cancelled the concerned public servant must carry out the order of transfer.
Dated 18th April, 1974 To Shri A.S. Pohani Junior Engineer, Ukai 37, Gurunagar Society Near Jakat Naka, Surat-3.
The learned Single Judge as well as the Division Bench both erred in law in setting aside the order of discharge.
The Division Bench upheld the order of the learned Single Judge holding the order of discharge illegal and void but it set aside the order of the learned Single Judge refusing to grant consequential relief instead it directed the appellants to reinstate the respondent, and to treat him in service without any break in service and to grant him benefits of increments, seniority, and promotion to which he may be entitled under the rules.
If he fails to proceed on transfer in compliance to the transfer order, he would expose himself to disciplinary action under the relevant Rules, as has happened in the instant case.
No Government servant or employee of any public undertaking has a right to be absent from duty without sanction of leave, merely on account of pendency of representation against the order of transfer.
The respondent lost his service as he refused to comply with the order of his transfer from one place to the other.
Instead he made a representation to the Additional Chief Engineer on 8.4.1974 after the transfer order.
His representation was rejected and he was directed to join at Ukai but he did not do so instead he filed a civil suit at Baroda challenging validity of the order of transfer.
There is no dispute that the respondent was holding a transferable post and under the conditions of service applicable to him he was liable to be transferred and posted at any place within the State of Gujarat.
