12.
11.
" 18.  From the above definition it is clear that, "dowry" means any property or valuable security given or agreed to be given either directly or indirectly by one party to another, by parents of either party to each other or any other person at, before, or at any time after the marriage and in connection with the marriage of the said parties but does not include dower or mahr under the Muslim Personal Law.
31.  Accused Pathan Hussain Basha and Pathan Nazeer Abi have rightly been found guilty of the offence by the courts.
P.C. M.O.1 shall be destroyed after expiry of appeal time.
They must be understood in their plain language and with reference to their meaning in common parlance.
LW-1, lodged the report, which was registered by Sri K. Srinivasarao, LW-16, the Sub-Inspector of Police.
They were married in the year 2002 and she committed suicide by hanging on 15th February, 2003.
Accused were charged with offences under Sections 498A and 304B of the IPC.
In our view, the expression "soon before her death" cannot be given a restricted or a narrower meaning.
He had called his son-in-law, accused No. 1, to his house, as per custom, at that point the accused demanded a ceiling fan.
All the expressions used under this section are of a very wide magnitude.
Since, these demands were not satisfied instantaneously, he even left the deceased at her parental house.
7.  They were committed to the Court of Sessions, Guntur Division, Guntur for such an offence.
The concept of deeming fiction is hardly applicable to the criminal jurisprudence.
He had given only Rs. 15,000/and had agreed to pay Rs. 10,000/-, after four months.
Denial cannot be treated to be the discharge of onus.
Appeals partly allowed.
Explanation appended to Section 113-B lays down that: "For the purpose of this section, 'dowry death' shall have the same meaning as in Section 304-B of Indian Penal Code.
9.  First and the foremost, we must consider what is the evidence led by the prosecution to bring home the guilt of accused.
However, upon medical examination by the doctor, she was declared brought dead.
" 13.
The customary payments in connection with birth of a child or other ceremonies are not covered within the ambit of the word "dowry".
His daughter, after the Ramzan festival, had informed him that the accused persons were harassing her and were even beating and abusing her.
However, the expression would normally imply that there has to be reasonable time gap between t he cruelty inflicted and the death in question.
The accused did not care to explain as to how the death of his wife occurred.
21.
5.
The basic ingredients to attract the provisions of Section 304-B are as follows: (1) the death of a woman should be caused by burns or fatal injury or otherwise than under normal circumstances; (2) such death should have occurred within seven years of her marriage; (3) she must have been subjected to cruelty or harassment by her husband or any relative of her husband; and (4) such cruelty or harassment should be for or in connection with demand for dowry.
SCC 424 1987 Indlaw SC 28308 held that furnishing of a list of ornaments and other household articles such as refrigerator, furniture and electrical appliances, etc.
In the medical report, LW13, he noticed "Oblique ligature mark of 17 x 2.5 cm present over front and left sides of neck" as well as noticed "Abrasion 1.5 x 1 cm present over lower part of middle of chin.
In other words, the rule of law requires a person to be innocent till proved guilty.
22.  This Court, in Madhu Sudan Malhotra v. Kishore Chand Bhandari, 1988 Supp.
26.  Similar view was expressed by this Court in Yashoda v. State of M.P, (2004)3 SCC 98 2004 Indlaw SC 132 where this Court stated that determination of the period would depend on the facts and circumstances of a given case.
According to this witness also, in the beginning they were happy, however after some time, she used to hear some quarrel between the deceased and the accused persons.
2.  The father of the bride could not pay the balance amount within time, because he lacked the resources.
These are penal provisions but ultimately these are the social legislations, intended to control offences relating to the society as a whole.
Out of this amount, a sum of Rs. 15,000/was paid at that time and it was promised that the balance dowry of Rs. 10,000/would be paid in the month of October, 2002, upon which the marriage was performed.
3.  When Pathan Basheerunnisa, LW3 returned from her work, the accused sent her out giving her money to bring the soaps upon which she went out and when she came back, she found the accused absent and the bride hanging in the house.
If this is so, the legislature in its wisdom would have specified any period which would attract the provisions of this section.
Both the sentences shall run concurrently.
32.  Consequently, we award ten years Rigorous Imprisonment to the appellants.
The sentence awarded by the Trial Court was confirmed.
6.  On 16th February, 2003, at about 5 p.m., Investigating Officer arrested all the three accused persons.
As already noticed, we need not deliberate on this aspect, as the accused before us has neither been charged nor punished for that offence.
The undergone remand period of A.1 to A.3 shall be set off section 428 Cr.
There being no rebuttal thereto, there is no occasion to interfere in the judgments of the courts under appeal.
I.D. of the fine amount of Rs. 1000/to undergo SI for 9 months.
This gave rise to filing of the present appeals.
It was an arranged marriage.
In the case of Biswajit Halder alias Babu Halder and Others v. State of W.B. [(2008) 1 SCC 202 2007 Indlaw SC 304], the Court stated the ingredients of this provision as follows: "10.
The expression "demand for dowry" will have to be construed ejusdem generis to the word immediately preceding this expression.
The accused asked for Rs. 1,000/with a ring for the deceased.
And further A.1 to A.3 are sentenced to undergo imprisonment for LIFE for the offence section 304-B IPC.
In the marriage, he had also given a gold chain, a double bed, an iron safe and other items.
25.  We are of the considered view that the concept of reasonable time is the best criteria to be applied for appreciation and examination of such cases.
After seeing this, she raised cries and people came to the scene.
Subsequently, LW-3 Pathan Basheerunnisa sent her grandson Pathan Inayatullah Khan, LW-4 to the house of the parents of the deceased to inform them about the incident.
10.
" Injuries were found to be antemortem in nature, and the cause of death was stated to be asphyxia, as a result of hanging 15.  LW-14 is a witness to the seizure of the body and she noticed injuries on the body of the deceased.
According to him, the accused persons used to harass the deceased primarily for non-payment of the amount of dowry, as a result of which, she was forced to commit suicide.
He inspected the site from where he recovered and seized the saree that had been used for hanging.
This was informed by the deceased to various persons, including her relatives and elders.
Once the prosecution proves its case with regard to the basic ingredients of Section 304-B, the Court will presume by deemed fiction of law that the husband or the relatives complained of, has caused her death.
His acquittal has not been challenged by the State before us, thus, we are not called upon to discuss this aspect of the matter.
The appeals are partially accepted to the extent afore-indicated.
Further, the interpretation given should be one which would avoid absurd results on the one hand and would further the object and cause of the law so enacted on the other.
23.  The courts have also taken the view that where the husband had demanded a specific sum from his father-in-law and upon not being given, harassed and tortured the wife and after some days she died, such cases would clearly fall within the definition of "dowry" under the Act.
