He further contended that the trial Court has committed serious error in exercising jurisdiction while not granting the benefit of probation to the answering respondent and the order of the trial Court was, therefore, rightly and justifiable modified by the High Court.
" 26.  Since the High Court has disposed of the criminal revision without giving an opportunity of filing counter affidavit to the counsel for the MCD and that the respondent did not disclose the fact in the criminal revision filed before the High Court that he has also been convicted in another criminal case No. 202 of 1997, the judgment impugned in this appeal cannot be allowed to stand.
At the time of arguments, the advocate for the accused submitted before the High Court that the accused did not wish to challenge the conviction on merits and stated it a fit case of accused to be admitted to the benefit of POB Act on the ground that the accused faced trial for 12 years in the lower courts and remained in jail for three days.
Before deciding to act under section 4 (1), it is mandatory on the part of the Court to call for a report from the probation officer and if such a report is received, it is mandatory on the part of the Court to consider the report.
The appellate Court held that no interference is required in the order passed by the trial court regarding point of sentence.
8.  The appellant, aggrieved by the judgment of the High Court, preferred the above appeal by way of special leave petition before this Court.
It was further contended that the respondent has not contested the revision in the High Court on merits and confined his submission to the benefit of Section 4 of the POB Act being extended to him.
1.  Municipal Corporation of Delhi, aggrieved against the judgment and final order dated 26.03.2004 passed by the High Court Delhi in Criminal Revision Petition No. 185 of 2004 by which order the High Court gave the benefit of probation under Section 4 of the Probation of Offenders Act, 1958 (herein after referred to as "POB Act") to the second respondent-Gurcharan Singh but maintained the conviction, preferred the above appeal.
Subsequently, the second respondent along with Kuldeep Singh were prosecuted for commission of offences under Sections 332 and 461 of the DMC Act before the designated Municipal Court.
Therefore, there is no occasion for the High Court to go into the issue of extent of constructions being raised by the answering respondent.
It was, therefore, submitted that the High Court passed the said order in the presence of the counsel of all the parties.
Words "if any" do not mean that the Court need not call for a report from the probation officer.
v. State of Haryana, [1971] 3 SCC 914 1970 Indlaw SC 513, a Bench of two Judges of this Court in paragraph 16 of the judgment observed as under: "Counsel for the appellants invoked the application of Probation of Offenders Act.
In the instant case, non-production of the order and even non-mentioning of the conviction and sentence in the criminal Case No. 202 of 1997 tantamounts to playing fraud on the Court.
, the Court observed as under: "If any report is filed by the probation officer, the Court is bound to consider it.
In fact, as could be seen from the annexures filed along with this appeal, the respondent has been convicted for offence under Sections 332 and 461 of the DMC Act.
The Court is bound to call for a report as per Section 4 of POB Act but the High Court has failed to do so although the Court is not bound by the report of the Probationer Officer but it must call for such a report before the case comes to its conclusion.
The High Court also observed that there is no allegation that the petitioner-accused is a previous convict and it further held that the accused deserved the benefit of probation under Section 4 of the POB Act and while maintaining the conviction of the respondent-accused, the sentence of imprisonment and fine as awarded to him was set aside.
Sections 4 and 6 of the Act indicate the procedure requiring the Court to call for a report from the Probation Officer and consideration of the report and any other information available relating to the character and physical and mental condition of the offender.
4.  The trial Court, after the conclusion of the trial, convicted the second respondent under Sections 332 and 461 of the DMC Act and sentenced him to six months simple imprisonment and imposed a fine of Rs. 5000 (Annexure P-1).
Whether the High Court was correct in extending the benefit of the Probation of Offenders Act, 1958 to the accused respondent without calling for a report from the Authorities relating to the conduct of the respondent as per Section 4 of the Act.
27.  The appeal is, accordingly, allowed with costs of Rs. 10,000 to be paid by the second respondent to the appellant, as indicated in paragraph supra.
Held, the requirement of section 4(1) was not fulfilled and therefore the case remanded.
In the instant case, the Magistrate passed order releasing the accused on probation without taking into consideration their character.
The words "if any" would only cover a case where notwithstanding such requisition, the probation officer for one reason or other has not submitted a report.
Obtaining such a report of the probation officer is mandatory since the sub-s.(1) of section 4 says that the Court shall consider the report of the probation officer.
These facts are of primary importance before the Court can pass an order under the Probation of Offenders Act.
The word "shall" in sub-section (2) of Section 4 is mandatory and the consideration of the report of the Probationer Officer is a condition precedent to the release of the accused as reported in the case of State v. Naguesh G. Shet Govenkar and Anr., AIR (1970) Goa 49 1969 Indlaw GOA 8 and a release without such a report would, therefore, be illegal.
Such a previous convict cannot be released in view of Section 4 of the POB Act.
The second respondent is a previous convict as per the records placed before us.
The section itself is clear that before applying the section, the Magistrate should carefully take into consideration the attendant circumstances.
The offender can only be released on probation of good conduct under this section when the Court forms an opinion, having considered the circumstances of the case, the nature of the offence and the character of the offender, that in a particular case, the offender should be released on probation of good conduct.
While extending benefit of this case, the discretion of the Court has to be exercised having regard to the circumstances in which the crime was committed, the age, character and antecedents of the offender.
The only limitation imposed by Section 6 is that in the first instance an offender under twenty one years of age, will not be sentenced to imprisonment.
