No costs.
What is relevant is the nature of the duty imposed on that body.
Manufacture and sale of cigarettes will not involve any public function.
(2) The principles of judicial review prima facie govern the Activities of bodies performing public functions.
He thus rejected the contention.
The words any person or authority used in Article 226 are, therefore, not be confined only to statutory authorities or instrumentalities of the State but would cover any other person or body performing public duty.
11.  The workmen have been employed for long years and despite a change of contractors the workers have continued to be employed in the canteen.
Hence this appeal.
21.
Against this award, a writ petition was filed before the High Court.
When there is existence of such relationship mandamus could not be refused to such an aggrieved party.
The duty must be judged in the light of positive obligation owed by the person or authority to the affected party, no matter by what means the duty is imposed, if a positive obligation exists, mandamus cannot be denied.
In Anadi Muktas case, the contention, similar to the present case, had been raised.
together with counting of entire service for the purpose of terminal benefits.
W-50 and obtained Ex.W-49 in the modified form.
vs Shramik Sena & Ors., 1999(6) SCC 439 1999 Indlaw SC 513, referred to the decisions in Parimal Chandra Rahas case, Reserve Bank of India vs Workmen, 1996 (3) SCC 267, and M.M.R.Khan vs Union of India, 1990 Supp.
It is contended that under the Petroleum Rules framed under the Petroleum Act, 1934, there are certain hazardous areas where there cannot be a canteen as no fire, furnace, source of heat or light capable of igniting inflammable vapours shall be allowed except in the firing spaces or stills and boilers.
12.  The premises, furniture, fixture, fuel, electricity, utensils, etc. have been provided for by the appellant.
The Tribunal held against them, as there was no material to show that the management had discussed on each point and thereafter an agreement had been drafted.
They were subject to the rules and regulations of the affiliating University and their activities were closely supervised by the University authorities.
22.
6533/97 & 6534/97 20.
19.
18.
17.
9.
8.
7.
6.
5.
4.
3.
2.
1.
15.  The contractor is nothing but an agent or a manager of the appellant, who works completely under the supervision, control and directions of the appellant.
On appeal, the Division Bench of the High Court affirmed the view taken by the learned Single Judge.
In other words, it is only a labour welfare device for the benefit of its work force unlike a provision where Pollution Control Act makes it obligatory even on a private company not to discharge certain effluents.
The Division Bench referred to their decision in Rakesh Gupta vs Hyderabad Stock Exchange Ltd. Hyderabad & Ors., AIR 1996 AP 430 1996 Indlaw AP 302, that a writ in the nature of mandamus, certiorari and prohibition are recognised as public law remedies and are not available to enforce private law rights.
Thus the Tribunal held that these facts clearly indicated that the appellant exercised administrative, financial and disciplinary control over the workmen in question.
In such a case, that branch of the law and its remedies should and normally will be applied; and (b) Where there is a contract between the litigants.
This Court in Indian Petrochemicals Corporation Ltd. & Anr.
We do agree that the respondents have a strong case on merits.
It is brought to our notice that a fire had taken place on a tank on 14 September 1997 and that it was extinguished after 14 days, which severely damaged all the building including the canteen and that food and beverages being provided to its employees by making an arrangement to obtain the same from outside the premises of the appellant.
When the management of the appellant exercises such a complete control, the canteen shall be deemed to be run by the management itself.
By way of illustration, it is noticed that a private company selected to run a prison although motivated by commercial profit should be regarded, at least in relation to some of its activities, as subject to public law because of the nature of the function it is performing.
In that case, the respondent was managing the affiliated college to which public money is paid as Government aid which played a major role in the control, maintenance and working of educational institutions.
That means, it is a condition of service in relation to a workman providing better facilities to workmen to discharge their duties properly and maintain their own health or welfare.
In that background, it was observed that if the rights are purely of a private character no mandamus could be issued and also, if the management of the college were purely a private body with no public duty mandamus would not lie.
W12 and W14 from 1 April 1979 with all consequential and attendant benefits of arrears of pay, etc.
Prima facie, therefore, a private person or an incorporated company cannot be taken out of the sweep and the contemplation of Article 226 of the Constitution.
Further the damage that would be caused in not observing them is immense.
On behalf of the appellant, contention was raised that no writ would lie against the appellant inasmuch as the appellant is a company, which is not an authority or a person against whom a writ would lie.
The appellant in any manner cannot controvert these facts.
Civil Appeal Nos.
This reflects the normal approach of English law, namely, that the terms of a contract will normally govern the transaction, or other relationship between the parties, rather than the general law.
In the absence of such material, we find no substance in this contention.
Thus, where a special method of resolving disputes (such as arbitration or resolution by private or domestic Tribunals) has been agreed by the parties (expressly or by necessary implication), that regime, and not judicial review, will normally govern the dispute.
The form of the body concerned is not very much relevant.
Therefore, when that work is got done through somebody else by providing the necessary infrastructure and other facilities, when the personnel did not change though the contractors changed from time to time, he held that they become employees of the appellant.
Thus, these circumstances clearly indicate that the appellant has a complete control over the Activities in respect of the canteen and the contractor has absolutely no discretion either in regard to the menu, quality and quantity of the food items much less the rate at which the same are supplied to the workmen.
The Tribunal held that no other material is required to hold them to be employees of the appellant.
vs V.R.Rudani & Ors., 1989 (2) SCC 691 1989 Indlaw SC 589, to contend that mere running of a factory to manufacture and sell of cigarettes can never be considered to be a public duty much less an incident thereto such as providing a canteen to its workmen.
Shri section Ganesh, learned counsel for the appellant, pressed into service the decision of this Court in Anadi Mukta Sadguru Shree Muktajee Vandas Swami Survarna Jayanti Mahotsav Smarak Trust & Ors.
These facts are brought to our notice by an affidavit filed on 21 November 2000.
Incidental to that activity there is an obligation under Section 46 of the Act to set up a canteen when the establishment has more than 250 workmen.
(2) SCC 611 1995 Indlaw SC 183, would not be applicable to the appellant in the facts and circumstances of the case.
Members of general public are the shareholders and the shares of the company are traded in through various stock exchanges in the country.
Thus, we are of the view that the High Court fell into error that appellant is amenable to writ jurisdiction.
On behalf of the respondent, heavy reliance was placed on this decision and also the decision of the High Court in T. Gattaiahs case, to contend that in running a canteen under Section 46 of the Act, the appellant was discharging a public duty and, therefore, a writ of mandamus would lie against it.
The Tribunal concluded that there was no doubt that the Personnel Manager modified Ex.
The aided institutions, it was noticed, like Government institutions discharge public function by way of imparting education to students.
In the following two situations judicial review will not normally be appropriate even though the body may be performing a public function: (a) Where some other branch of the law more appropriately governs the dispute between the parties.
