1.  The accused-appellant has been held guily of of-fences punishable under Section 302 and Section 376(2)(f) of Indian Penal Code.
P.C. and nowhere suggested during cross-examination of prosecution witnesses that at the time of the incident he was at a place wherefrom he could not have reached the place of the offence on the date and at the time of its commission.
The prosecution case depends on circumstantial evidence.
(ii) Abnormal conduct of accused Kalu Ram, PW5 stated that two or three days after the date of dead body of S having been found, he and Santosh, PW9 had gone to see a movie in a cinema hall where the accused was employed as a gate-keeper.
We are left with circumstance No. 3 only, i.e., recovery of underwear and baniyan stained with semen and human blood group 'B', which alone, in the fact and circumstances of the case discussed hereinabove cannot form basis of conviction of the accused-appellant for the offence charged.
In the opinion of the other learned Judge, the prosecution evidence was sufficient to sustain the conviction, as recorded by the trial Court, though, the case was not one of those 'rarest of rare cases' as would warrant death sentence being awarded to the appellant.
11.  There is something mysterious about the discovery of Shalu as a witness to the incident.
Harish Chand Sharma, the Investigating Officer, was specifically asked how the name of this witness came to his knowledge during investigation? He gave an evasive answer saying that the fact that Shalu was accompanying S 'must have come in the staement of the witnesses'.
P/30 of forensic science laboratory human blood of group 'B' was detected on the underwear.
At least this fact should have been mentioned in the memo of arrest even if the same was prepared at village Kotputli.
What is being treated as the plea of alibi by the trial court and the High Court is this.
6.  We would proceed to examine each of the pieces of incriminating circumstantial evidence so as to find out if each one of the circumstantial evidence is proved individually and whether collectively it forges such a chain of incriminating circumstances as would fasten the guilt on the accused beyond by shadow of reasonable doubt.
in diameter on the appellant's pant and of a dried stain of semen on his under-pant, were circumstances for too feeble to establish that the appellant raped or murdered the victim. 'B' group is not uncommon group of blood and no effort was made to exclude the possibility that the blood of the accused belonged to the same group.
The accused was told by the witness that the punishment could be 20 or even 40 years of imprisonment or imprisonment for life.
At about 7 a.m. on 19th March 1991, Kishori Lal, PW4 informed BD (PW2), the unfortunate father of S, that dead body of a girl was lying near Mohalla Basera on the outskirts of village Kotputli.
The accused-appellant has filed this appeal by special leave.
There is nothing in her statement to suggest that what she is narrating in the court is the story of a day soon before the date and time of the incident or the date on which dead body of S was found.
The purpose of asking questions during examination under Section 313 Cr.
In the later case, it was also held that a false explanation or false plea taken by the accused can be used as an additional link in the chain of circumstantial evidence subject to satisfication of three essential conditions, namely (i) various links in the chain of evidence led by the prosecution have been satisfactorily proved, (ii) the said circumstance points to the guilt of the accused with reasonable definiteness, and (iii) the circumstance is in proxim-ity to the time and situation.
The factum of a cognizable crime having been committed is known but neither the identity of the accused is disclosed nor is there any indication available of the witnesses who would be able to furnish useful and relevant evidence.
P.C. The third learned Judge has, on an independent appreciation of evidence, recorded his own findings upholding the conviction of the accused on both the charges framed against him and thus agreeing with one of the two learned Judges constituting the division bench in conclusion.
What happened to these clothes is not known? There is not investigation directed towards finding out and no evidence worth its name collected and adduced in the court to show that the underwear and baniyan were of the accused.
On a pertinent question the witness stated that while making such a query there was no change in the facial expression of the accused, that is, he had remained normal.
7.  In Dhananjoy Chatterjee v. State of West Bengal, [1994] 2 SCC 220 1994 Indlaw SC 1743, (wherein one of us, Dr. A.S. Anand, J., as His Lordship then was, spoke for the Bench) this Court held as under : "In a case based on circumstantial evidence, the circumstances from which the conclusion of guilt is to be drawn have not only to be fully established but also that all the circumstances so established should be of a conclusive nature and consistent only with the hypoth-esis of the guilt of the accused.
12.  The fact remains that the testimony of Shalu, PW 7 aged 4 years, even if taken at its face value, does not constitute such a circumstance as to draw an incriminating inference against the accused and connect him with the crime.
Suffice it to observe that there is no direct evidence connecting the accused with the offences charged.
Thus how and in what manner the investigating officer came to learn about Shalu, PW7 so as to record her statement during investigation remains shrounded in mystery.
The evidence of investigating officer given in the court should have a rhythm explaining step by step how the investigation proceeded leading to detection of the offender and collection of evidence against him.
The number and extent of spread of stains is also not known.
BD rushed to the place only to find that the dead body was of none else than his own daughter section Blood was oozing out from her mouth and private parts.
The accused did not avail the opportunity and stood short by simply stating that the statement of cinema owner was not correct.
It needs no reminder that legally estab-lished circumstances and not merely indignation of the court can form the basis of conviction and the more serious the crime, the greater should be the care taken to scrutinize the evidence lest suspicion takes the place of proof.
In view of the difference of opinion, the learned acting Chief Justice assigned the case for hearing by a third Judge under Section 392 of Cr.
All injuries found on the person of the victim could be around 6 of 24 hours old prior to the time of post-mortem examina-tion.
Any person even if innocent and not connected in any way with a gruesome crime which had recently occurred and was talk of the town, if called by police and interrogated as a suspect, would be scared and be apprehensive of the likelihood of his being implicated in the crime.
Thus, he was always available to the police.
Conviction of the accused-appellant under Sections 302 and 376(2)(f) of Indian Penal Code is set aside.
22.  The appeals are allowed.
Conclusion 19.  Thus, none of the pieces of evidence relied on as incriminating, by the trial court and the High Court, can be treated as incriminating pieces of circumstantial evidence against the accused.
There is no evidence adduced by the prosecution to hold that soon after the date of the offence the accused was found missing from his residence or the place of his employment and was not available, though searched, at the place or places where normally he ought to have been.
Kalu Ram, PW5, accompanied by a friend Santosh, PW9, had gone to see a movie in cinema talkies Heera-Moti two days after the date of the incident and there the accused was present on his duty.
The memo of arrest does not state the arrest of accused having been made at Behror.
Though the accused is alleged to have been arrested at Behror but the memo of arrest was not prepared at Behror; it was prepared at village Kotputli.
P/21) at Behror, which is a place situated at a distance of about 30-35 kms.
According to Harish Chand Sharma, the accused was arrested on 3.4.1991 (vide Exbt.
(v) Absconding of the accused Was the accused absconding at all? Grave injustice has been done to the accused by holding it as a fact that the accused was absconding after the date of the incident and then treating the so-called absconding as a piece of incrimi-nating circumstantial evidence against the accused.
