There is no dispute that Bhavna's death is homicidal.
There is no evidence on record to show that the child witness had an opportunity to see and study the features of the accused between their arrest and test identification parade to enable a tutored identification.
We therefore, hold that the accused Mahesh (accused No. 3) in Criminal Appeal No. 867 of 2013 is innocent and the conviction against him is set aside.
The accused - Chandra Prakash had threatened him not to disclose anything about the incident to anyone.
About the assault, he deposed that Devendra caught Bhavna and Chandra Prakash attacked her with knife 3 to 4 times and she fell down.
A similar identification parade of Raju @ Devendra Choubey was conducted on 26.12.2003 after his arrest.
The credibility of the evidence of Anil Kumar (PW-21) was attacked by the learned counsel for the appellants, who submitted that the boy is a tutored witness, who has been influenced by the police with whom he spent a lot of time.
Shashi Didi thereafter started shouting.
This Court has not laid down the requirement in general that all identification parades must be under the supervision of a Magistrate as in Budhsen's case 1970 Indlaw SC 136 (supra).
It must be remembered that the boy comes from a rural back ground and was 13 years of age when the incident occurred.
She engaged the other accused for murdering Bhavna.
The incident occurred within the four walls of the house of the accused - Shashi Tripathi and the only witness was the boy - Anil (PW-21).
There were numerous injuries, including incised wounds on Bhavna, none on Shashi.
The evidence as to identification deserves, therefore, to be subjected to a close and careful scrutiny by the Court......." The observations of this Court undoubtedly lay down the correct law and we have no reason to doubt them.
On 25.11.2003, when PW-1 - Dr. Sharda Prasad Tripathi came home from his clinic, found that his daughter-in-law Bhavna Tripathi has been murdered.
They must, therefore, take intelligent interest in the proceedings, bearing in mind two considerations: (i) that the life and liberty of an accused may depend on their vigilance and caution and (ii) that justice should be done in the identification.
The prosecution has found it difficult to pinpoint the motive but Shashi Tripathi's husband Dr. Sharda Prasad Tripathi (PW-1) deposed before the Court that she tried to create a hindrance in the marriage of his son Jitendra since she wanted her daughter Abhilasha to marry him; however, he went ahead with the marriage of Jitendra to Bhavna, whereupon Shashi Tripathi remained silent.
Shashi Tripathi (accused No. 1) has filed Criminal Appeal arising out of Special Leave Petition (Criminal) No. 3737 of 2014.
The identification to be of value should also be held without much delay.
On a careful perusal of the deposition of this child witness, we have not found any reason why he would have lied.
The power to identify, it may be kept in view, varies according to the power of observation and memory of the person identifying and each case depends on its own facts, but there are two factors which seem to be of basic importance in the evaluation of identification.
Internal injuries: Brain membrane pale; lungs, trachea pale, punctured wound on right and left lungs of size 2 cm x 1 cm, 2 = cm and 1 cm x 3 cm; lobe was cut and there was 3 cm punctured wound.
The crime was registered.
He further deposed that Shashi Didi took him upstairs to the terrace and asked him not to disclose the truth to anyone but to say that thieves came into the house and committed the crime.
The picture that emerges is that Shashi Tripathi caused Bhavna to be killed and for this purpose engaged Chandra Prakash (accused No. 2) and Raju @ Devendra Choubey (accused No. 4) by paying them money.
There was no reason for the sole eye witness - Anil (PW-21) to implicate anybody falsely.
He deposed before the Court that Shashi Didi (accused) brought him to village - Jevra from Bilaspur.
Now, facts which establish the identity of an accused person are relevant section 9 of the Indian Evidence Act.
We have carefully examined the manner in which the identification parade was conducted and the manner in which the boy - Anil Kumar (PW-21) identified the accused in Court and we have no reason to doubt the identification of the accused, which assumes importance in this case since the boy did not know the accused before the incident.
He stated that Shashi Didi and Bhavna sometimes used to quarrel.
After the assault, Chandra Prakash went to the TV room where Shashi Didi had kept some money in a rubber band on the table.
He was brought to the house by Shashi Tripathi (accused), who apparently took care of him and sent to school and gave him food and residence.
He deposed in court that on 25.11.2003, when he returned home, he found servant Anil Kumar (PW-21) was weeping.
The learned counsel for the appellants forcefully attacked the conviction of the other accused viz. Mahesh, Chandra Prakash and Devendra Kumar, who admittedly were not known to the child witness Anil Kumar.
She resided with Shashi Didi.
They are generally held during the course of investigation with the primary object of enabling the witnesses to identify persons concerned in the offence, who were not previously known to them.
She also seems to have had a scuffle with Bhavna, which is apparent from the fact that her hair was found in the grip of the deceased during investigation.
PW-1 - Dr. Sharda Prasad Tripathi is the husband of accused Shashi Tripathi.
His presence in the house is entirely natural and we have no reason to discard his testimony.
Shashi was unconscious.
It is not possible for us to accept this contention.
He had no axe to grind against any of the accused.
The facts and circumstances of the cases are however different and it is not necessary to consider those cases in detail while dealing with the present case.
There is no evidence of his having played any part in the crime.
In any case, the period between the arrest and the identification parade was not large enough to constitute inordinate delay.
There is no reference to a third person in the FIR; no evidence that he came with the other accused or left with them.
Bhavna was murdered on 25.11.2003 at about 18:30 hours in the house where she resided with Shashi Tripathi.
We, however, do not see how the observations help the appellants.
The purpose of a prior test identification, therefore, seems to be to test and strengthen the trustworthiness of that evidence.
822 of 2012, 589 of 2014 and Criminal Appeal arising out of SLP (Criminal) No. 3737 of 2014 are dismissed.
On a careful conspectus of the facts and the law, we are of the view that the prosecution has failed to prove the guilt of Mahesh beyond reasonable doubt.
