The Compensation officer accepted the report of the Chief Conservator and made the statutory calculation on that date.
The said order (the relevant portion of which we are concerned) runs thus:- "He would immediately call upon the Divisional Forest Officer to make appraisement within three months from the receipt of the record.
We may make it clear that now that a Forest officer has made an appraisement, the Chief Conservator of Forests will apply his mind to it and approve it as a whole or with such modifications as he thinks necessary and forward it to the Compensation Officer.
As admittedly compensation had not been calculated by the date of vesting, the Compensation Officer lost his statutory jurisdiction to do so.
(3) Assuming that in spite of the directions of the court the Compensation Offi cer is entitled to follow the procedure laid down in section 26(2)(b)(v), the expression 'subject to the approval of the Chief Conservator of Forests' does not refer to the appraisement made by the D.F.O. but refers to his appointment.
The force of these observations constrains us to direct that the proceedings before the Compensation Officer shall be completed within six months from today.
He forgets that in the case of forests it is the assumed income and not the Actual income that forms the basis of calculation of compensation.
The expression 'Forest Officer', used here, has been explained in section 26.
Substantially, this is what has been done by the learned Judge when allowing the revisions and remitting the case back to the Compensation Officer.
Strictly speaking, the statutory requirement is for initial appraisal of the annual income by the Forest Officer.
the Act also provides for appeal, second appeal and revision, the last being to the High Court and the earlier ones being to the Collector and a Board constituted under section 22.
Those Officers ascertain the income from the forest concerned and the figure so fixed is subject to the approval of the C.C.F. (Chief Conservator of Forests), presumably the top expert in the department.
Shri Achutananda Purohit, appellant, was the intermediary in respect of vast forests and other lands comprised in the estate of Jujumura in the district of Sambalpur.
The appraisement can be scientifically done by looking to the age of the trees as they stand now.
Equally clearly, a slight error has crept into the Judge's order because he does not make any reference specifically to the statutory requirement of approval of the Chief Conservator of Forests of the appraisement made by the Forest Officer.
It is open to the petitioners to give evidence that after the date of vesting many of the trees and forest produce have been removed.
No income, therefore no income-tax, and therefore no deduction, is the syllogism of Shri Purohit.
section 28 states how the amount of compensation is to be determined and the methodology of payment.
section 26(2) (b) (v) is relevant here and may be set out:- "26(2) 'gross asset' when used with reference to an estate means the aggregate of the rents, including all cesses, which were payable in respect of the estate for the previous agricultural year- (b) by the raiyats or any other persons cultivating the land other than the land settled with the intermediary or intermediaries under Sub-s.
Then followed three revision petitions to the High Court which led to the order of remand now attacked before us in the present appeals.
The High Court, after deciding various issues, remanded the cases to the Compensation Officer under the Act, after over-ruling most of the contentions pressed before it by the appellant.
But he pointed out that the Forest Officer had omitted to include the income from kendu leaves and added that sum to the income from forests.
The direction given by the learned Judge in the remand order is correct although it may require a little clarification.
The statutory scheme of compensation for forest lands consists of machinery for assessment of the net income which is multiplied on a sliding scale and the method of challenge to the determination by the aggrieved owner of State.
This estate vested in the State on April 1, 1960 by force of the Act and the crucial question agitated before us, consequentially turns on the quantum of compensation awardable under Chapter V of the Act.
It is again due to mistakes committed by the authorities concerned that the matter is being remitted back to the Compensation Officer for disposal'.
Having heard the appellant at some length, we see no flaw in the High Court's order on this aspect of the matter.
Indeed, there was a fundamental difference in the basis adopted by the Forest Officer and the Chief Conservator in the matter of assessing the income of the forests in question.
The dynamic rule of law, with a social mission, makes a meaningful distinction between rights steeped in the old system and compensation for deprivation of those interests, on the one hand, and the ordinary commercial transactions or regulation of rights untinged by social transformation urges, on the other.
Later, revision petition were filed before the High Court and G. K. Misra J., set aside the order disallowing the inclusion of the income from forests for ascertainment of compensation and directed a remand to the Compensation Officer.
(4) Assuming that section 26(2) (b) (v) would have full force, what it contemplates is that the appraisement must be made by the D.F.O., and it is subject to the approval by the Chief Conservator of Forests.
Here again, the flaw in the submission consists in mis-reading section 27 of the Act which expressly states that the net income from an estate shall be computed by deducting from the gross assets of such estate any sum 'which was payable by the intermediary as income-tax in respect of any income derived from such estate for the previous agricultural year'.
in the Forest Department, for the purposes of the Act.
Point No. 9, in the catalogue already given, relates to the claim for 12% interest on the amount of compensation as against the statutory rate of 2 1/2%.
The take-over of the forests of the appellant was effected as early as 1960 and 16 years have passed without the intermediary being out of the litigative woods.
The Compensation Officer is charged with fixing the quantum in the prescribed manner.
This was wrong and contrary to section 26, as was contended by the appellant and in a way accepted by the High Court.
