The section is clear that the gross income from forests must be calculated on the basis of appraisal of the annual yield on the date of vesting firstly, by a Forest Officer and, secondly, by the Chief Conservator of Forests screening it and approving it.
There are a few other s.s in Chapter VI which deal with payment of compensation.
(7) The slab-system of calculation of compensation in the Act providing smaller multiples for estates yielding larger income is unconstitutional.
Therefore there is no substance in the functus officio argument.
Similarly, an assumed income- tax also has to be worked out and deducted.
A Second Appeal followed before the Board of Revenue which was dismissed.
Three civil appeals, stemming from three revision petitions to the High Court of Orissa under the Orissa Estates Abolition Act, 1951 (Orissa Act I of 1952) (for short, the Act) have reached this Court, thanks to special leave granted to the appellant, who is common in all the cases.
Shri Purohit, appellant, is an Advocate by profession and is 83 years old.
From this narrative, what follows is that the Chief Conservator had substituted his appraisement which was accepted by the statutory tribunal.
22.
12.
19.
A similar principle applies to the award of interest which may sometimes be notional when feudal interests are puffed out.
No other evidence would be permissible as the State has not chosen to give any other evidence.
" 13.
No, it was created by the statute and canalised by the order of remand.
14.
The Compensation Officer passed an order adverse to the appellant, where upon he filed an appeal to the Collector which was rejected.
These furnish in bare outline the provisions with which we are directly concerned.
" 16.
10.
Even so, the total figure was less than what the Divisional Forest Officer had recommended.
We cannot import the notion of prevailing bank rates in such situations.
A compensation assessment roll containing the gross asset and net income of each estate, together with the compensation payable in respect of such estate, has to be prepared by him.
But before examining this essential issue we may dispose of the minor points pressed, so that the deck may be cleared for dealing with what deserves to be dealt with.
21.
20.
18.
17.
15.
11.
9.
8.
7.
" 6.
5.
4.
3.
2.
1.
Technicality can be frightened away by technicality.
We have listened with patience to all his submissions, good, bad and indifferent.
He has argued in person and with passion.
This will, among other things, save time.
Therefore, deduction of income-tax from the gross assets is illegal and unwarranted.
Thereafter, the appropriate statutory course will follow.
Presidential assent has been accorded to this State Act and so the ban operates.
Although he waxed sentimentally on this note, he did not convince us on his contentions.
We have examined the circular letter and are satisfied that it has no relevance to a situation like the present and it deals with a totally different matter.
Point No. 6 in the list of contentions earlier reproduced is also bereft of force and we may make short shrift of it.
This gives rationality to the seeming disparity.
Holmes once commented: 'It is revolting to have no better reason for a rule of law than that so it was laid down in the time of Henry IV'.
The rule-making power is vested in the government under section 47 and there is a routine 'removal of difficulties' clause contained in section 50.
The contention is that on the date of vesting, which was well over two decades ago, the purchasing power of the rupee was much higher than its present value.
The power to approve implies the power to disapprove or modify but not to report or arrive at an income de hors the Forest Officer's Report altogether.
During the agricultural year immediately preceding the abolition, the petitioners had not actually derived any income from the forests and as such they were under no obligation to pay any income-tax on such income.
The policy of the law of agrarian reform postulates the extinguishment of ancient privileges and cornering of land resources, and the socioeconomic yardstick is different from what applies to ordinary purchases of real estate and this is manifest in the special provisions contained in article 31A and article 31B of the Constitution.
It is more or less a world phenomenon that the erosi on in value of the unit of currency has been taking place, but this invisible devaluation owing to the inflationary spiral does not affect the quantum of monetary compensation prescribed by statute.
With these prefatory observations, we proceed to formulate the many points urged and give our findings and reasons, one after the other.
Moreover, the High Court has rightly pointed out that the validity of section 37(3) of the Act which fixes a small rate of interest on the compensation amount has been upheld by the Supreme Court in Gajapati Narayan's Case.
This provision directly demolishes the contention of the appellant.
Against the background of law just projected, we may set out Shri Purohit's points which, if we may say so, are substantially the same as have been argued by him in revision before the High Court with partial success.
With these directions and observations we affirm the orders under appeal but, while dismissing the appeals, direct the parties to bear their costs in this Court.
The next point in the reverse order is equally unsubstantial and may be disposed of right away.
While his arguments did not impress us, we were touched by his concluding words that he had been born and had grown in an adivasi village, in the only brahmin family and, in his evening years of life, proposed to give a substantial part of the compensation the State would give him for adivasi welfare.
The serious question that survives for consideration is covered by the remaining points which more or less overlap.
Indeed, preliminary to the appraisal operation, the intermediary receives a notice in Form 'D' (rule 13) and he is expected to furnish a return of the relevant particulars and supporting information to enable correct appraisement.
So the first step is for the Government to appoint Forest Officers from out of D.F.Os.
In this context, it is perhaps not irrelevant to remember that the appellant, a freedom-fighter, is an 83-year-old man and, at this stage of his life, the State should show commisseration not merely in quickly disposing of the proceedings but also in not being cantankerous in awarding and disbursing the balance compensation.
