" 10.  Furthermore, as noticed hereinbefore, the authorities of the DRI by a letter dated 28.02.2005 requested the Bank to defreeze the bank accounts of Appellant.
Appeal allowed.
It was allegedly found that non-alloy steel, bars, rods, etc.
Recording of such statement must have been made from the xeroxed copies of such documents which were available with the detaining authority.
On 25.6.2004 proposal of detention was sent which was approved on 2.12.2004.
Appellant and the said Prabhjot Singh made statements section 108 of the Customs Act.
Right to make an effective representation is also a statutory right.
5.  We may first deal with the question of unexplained delay.
No hard and fast rule can be precisely formulated that would be applicable under all circumstances and no exhaustive guidelines can be laid down in that behalf.
Considering the nature and gravity of the offence, the well planned manner in which you have engaged yourself in such prejudicial activities and your role therein as brought out above, all of which reflect your high potentiality and propensity to indulge in such prejudicial activities in future, I am satisfied that there is a need to prevent you from indulging in such prejudicial activities in future by detention under COFEPOSA ACT, 1974 with a view to preventing you from smuggling goods in future.
Several inquiries were conducted both inside and outside India.
by declaring their value thereof from Rs. 110/- to Rs. 150/- per kg.
14.  The question came up for consideration recently in Rajinder Arora v. Union of India and Others [(2006) 4 SCC 796 2006 Indlaw SC 87] wherein it has been held: "Furthermore no explanation whatsoever has been offered by the Respondent as to why the order of detention has been issued after such a long time.
30.  It is a trite law that all documents which are not material are not necessary to be supplied.
A Division Bench of this Court in K.S. Nagamuthu v. State of Tamil Nadu & Ors.
It is possible to presume that the confession made by the co-accused Sowkath Ali would also have contributed to the final opinion that the confession made by the petitioner on 7-11-1999 can safely be relied on.
(iv) By an order dated 13.8.2004, the Tribunal ordered release of goods.
They could not have been withheld.
22.
In this regard we may notice the following dates.
and the export proceeds over and above the actual price were being routed through Hawala Channel.
It contains the very stand of the detenu of whatever worth.
Respondents contended that on first information report was registered against Appellant as also one sepoy Narender Singh.
8.  Learned counsel would contend that keeping in view the nature and magnitude of an offence under COFEPOSA, a distinction must be made between an order of detention passed under COFEPOSA vis-a-vis other Acts as per the law laid down by this Court in Rajendrakumar Natvarlal Shah v. State of Gujarat and Others [(1988) 3 SCC 153 1988 Indlaw SC 71] and in that view of the matter the High Court must be held to have arrived at a correct decision.
The same was not done.
2.
Leave granted.
Appellant moved for issuance of a writ of Habeas Corpus before the High Court of Judicature of Punjab and Haryana.
They initiated various civil proceedings from time to time, obtained various interim orders and, thus, delay in passing the order of detention cannot be said to have not been explained.
Various incriminating documents were recovered.
What else would be relevant if not this? It may be that the detaining authority might have come to the same conclusion as the sponsoring authority but its contents are relevant which could not be withheld by the sponsoring authority.
This appeal, however, has been pressed as a proceeding under the Smugglers and Foreign Exchange Manipulators (Forfeiture of Property) Act, 1976 (for short "SAFEMA"), has been initiated against Appellant.
It was an exporter and held a valid licence therefor.
Invoices with a higher value were presented before the Indian Customs Authorities with a view to avail DEPB incentives but in fact invoices with a lower value were presented for clearance.
There could be no two opinions on it.
(iii) By reason of the Civil Court by orders dated 7.5.2004 and 31.5.2004, the bank accounts of M/s. Girnar and Shri Amar were defreezed.
In the present case, except stating that the documents were not supplied before the meeting of the Advisory Board, there is no pleading that it had resulted in the impairment of his right nor could counsel for the petitioners point out any such prejudice.
21.  We have noticed hereinbefore that learned Additional Solicitor General contended that Appellant obstructed the proceedings by initiating various civil litigations.
6.  On 13.10.2003, Appellant was arrested.
In the civil, your office letter No. B.L.-2/Misc.
It follows that the test of proximity is not a rigid or mechanical test by merely counting number of months between the offending acts and the order of detention.
Am-2003/Ldh dated 17.05.2004 is being referred, which is not received in this office.
The said writ petition was dismissed by an order dated 23.11.2005 by a learned Single Judge.
" 29.  What is, therefore, relevant was as to whether the documents were material.
No costs.
He allegedly misdeclared both the value and description of goods upon procuring fake and false bills through one Prabhjot Singh.
We must also notice that in the meantime on 20.12.2004, the authorities of the DRI had clearly stated that transactions after 11.10.2003 were not under the scrutiny stating: "In our letter mentioned above, your office was requested not to issue the DEPB scripts to M/s. Girnar Impex Limited and M/s. Siri Amar Exports, only in respect of the pending application, if any, filed by these parties up to the date of action i.e. 11.10.2003 as the past exports were under scrutiny being doubtful as per the intelligence received in this office.
In the meantime admittedly the period of detention being over, Appellant had been set at large.
He was released from custody on 17.5.2006.
He is the Managing Director of a company, registered and incorporated under the provisions of the Companies Act, known as M/s. Sundesh Springs Private Limited.
The court is required to consider the question having regard to the overall picture.
[2005 (9) SCALE 534 2005 Indlaw SC 748] struck down an order of detention on the ground that the relevant material had been withheld from the detaining authority; which in that case was a letter of the detenu retracting from confession made by him.
7.  The learned Additional Solicitor General, who appeared on behalf of Respondent has drawn our attention to a long list of dates showing that searches were conducted and statements of a large number of persons had to be recorded.
The judgment of the High Court, therefore, cannot be sustained.
In the said decision, this Court stated the law, thus: " If, merely an incidental reference is made to some part of the investigation concerning a co- accused in the grounds of detention which has no relevance to the case set up against the detenus it is difficult to understand how the detenus could contend that they were denied the right to make an effective representation.
28.  Learned Additional Solicitor General submitted that due to non- supply of documents which were not vital or have merely been referred to as incidental, the order of detention may not become vitiated as was been held by this Court in Kamarunnissa v. Union of India and Another [(1991) 1 SCC 128 1990 Indlaw SC 85].
