Sub: Transfer from Surat to Ukai.
Vimal Dave, learned counsel appearing for the respondent to obtain instructions as aforesaid.
There is presumption of service of a letter sent under registered cover, if the same is returned back with a postal endorsement that the addressee refused to accept the same.
A warning need not be in any particular form.
The opportunity granted to the respondent has, however, been misused by raising mischievous and frivolous objections instead of filing written submissions.
In fact, the Superintending Engineer had by his letter dated 18th April, 1974 clearly reminded the respondent that his unauthorised absence was in breach of Service Regulation No. 113 and called upon to show cause why action should not be taken against him but in spite of these letters the respondent failed to join his duties.
This appeal came up for hearing before us on 28th January, 1988 and on that day Sh.
No Government servant or employee of Public Undertaking has legal tight for being posted at any particular place.
Whenever, a public servant is transferred he must comply with the order but if there be any genuine difficulty in proceeding on transfer it is open to him to make representation to the competent authority for stay, modification or cancellation of the transfer order.
We do not agree with the view taken by the Division Bench.
" The above Rule provides that if an employee of the Gujarat Electricity Board continues to remain absent from duty or overstays the period of sanctioned leave and in spite of warning, he fails to return to duty, he renders himself liable to be discharged summarily from service without complying with the procedure prescribed for taking disciplinary action, under the Gujarat Electricity Board, Conduct, Discipline and Appeal Procedure.
Appeal allowed.
The respondent has been paid a sum of Rs. 1,04,170 towards salary under the interim orders of this Court.
This finding is wholly misconceived.
In March, 1974 he was transferred .
We refused to hear the counsel as we had already completed hearing.
The burden to rebut the presumption lies on the party, challenging the factum of service.
The respondent as well as the appellant-board, both preferred Letters Patent appeals against the order of learned Single Judge.
8.
7.
6.
5.
4.
3.
2.
He was promoted to the post of Deputy Engineer.
This appeal is directed against the judgment and order of the High Court of Gujarat dated 28.2.1986 allowing the respondent's writ petition and quashing order of discharge from service and directing his reinstatement in service.
Perusal of the averments made in paragraphs 17, 18, 23 and 25 (2)(ii) of the counter-affidavit filed in reply to the petitioner's writ petition before the learned Single Judge shows that the Board had categorically pleaded that the respondent was informed by letter dated 24.4.1974 that his representation to postpone his transfer was rejected and he should obey the order of transfer.
If even thereafter he fails to join duty, his services are liable to be terminated by an order of discharge.
Thereupon, the respondent himself appeared in person and sought permission to make his submissions personally.
The Transfer order was not stayed and as the respondent did not join his duties, he continued to be absent without sanction of any leave.
Since this was unusual, uncalled for and unjustified request we ignored the same and reserved the order.
The Division Bench of the High Court held that no warning as contemplated by service Regulation No. 113 had been issued to the respondent nor he had been afforded any opportunity of showing cause before the impugned order of discharge was passed and consequently, the order of discharge was null and void being contrary to service Regulation No. 113 itself.
The respondent's case was that no such registered letter was tendered to him by the postman nor he ever refused to accept the same.
Please submit your explanation as to why action should not be taken against you for disobeying order of superior and breach of S.R. No. 112 and 113 within 7 days from receipt of this letter.
The Bench, however, did not grant full back-wages to the respondent instead it directed the Board to pay him 50 per cent of back-wages.
In determining the question whether any warning was given to the respondent it is necessary to refer to the sequence of events and the correspondence which ensued between the appellants and the respondent.
if any, in support of his case.
Thereafter, the case was listed several times but no written submissions were filed instead the respondent adopted an unusual course by sending an application by post expressing his no confidence in us with a prayer to transfer the case to some other Bench.
Transfer of a Government servant appointed to a particular cadre of transferable posts from one place to the other is an incident of service.
There would be no order as to costs.
to Superintending Engineer, GEB, Utran.
However, in the interest of justice we permitted the respondent to file written submissions.
Ultimately, the Chief Engineer of the Board took action against the respondent and discharged him from service with effect from 31.3.1974 by his letter dated May 27, 1974.
In the instant case on the conclusion of the oral hearing we had expressed our opinion on 28.1.1988 in the open court, that we were inclined to allow the appeal and set aside the order of the High Court and dismiss the writ petition but taking a sympathetic view we requested Sh.
In fact, during the tenure of his service in the Board the respondent had been transferred from one place to another place several times.
is to remind the delinquent employee that his continued unauthorised absence from duties was liable to result in discharge of his service.
Sd/-Execut ive Engineer (O & M) Surat Copy f.w.c.s.
He made representation to the Additional Chief Engineer for cancelling his transfer order on the ground that his mother aged 70 years was ailing and it would cause great inconvenience to him if he was required to join at Ukai.
He was relieved from his duties at Surat on 30th March, 1974 but he did not join at Ukai till the impugned order of discharge was issued on May 27, 1974.
The letter is as under: "GUJARAT ELECTRICITY BOARD O & M DIVISION Nana Varchha Road Surat.
No new plea had been raised by the Board before the Division Bench instead the plea relating to service of the aforesaid letter had already been before the learned Single Judge.
