The main issue in the suit was whether- the widow took under the will an absolute estate or an estate like the Hindu widow's estate and whether the daughter's interest therein was in the nature of a contingent remainder, or whether she got in the properties a vested interest.
It is significant that the testator did not say in the will that the daughter will enjoy only the properties left indisposed of by the widow.
In this situation the inference that the testator must have of necessity intended to confer on the widow power of alienation for those limited purposes cannot be raised.
The words 'pass to my daughter' would rather indicate that in the ordinary course of devolution the estate should pass to her, that is, the daughter and then to the grandsons.
Both the learned counsel eventually conceded that the language used in the will was consistent with the testator's intention of conferring a life estate in the English sense as well as with the intention of conferring a Hindu widow's estate.
That was a case of a government grant on the special terms set out therein and the question arose as to the nature of the grant.
The restraint against alienation was repugnant to both a life estate and a widow',-, estate and was not, therefore, taken into account.
One daughter of the daughter predeceased the testator without issue and the other daughter died after the death of the testator leaving an only son, the respondent in that case.
It was averred in the plaint that Ramalakshmi obtained a vested interest in the suit -properties under the will of her father and plaintiff was thus entitled to maintain the suit.
Indeed we find that within four years of the death of the testator the widow was able to pay a lump sum of Rs. 3,350 in cash to the daughter-in-law without alienating any part of the immovable properties and presumably by this time she had discharged all the debts.
There it was said that: "the widows of Sivaji Raja got the gift of a life estate very much resembling the ordinary estate of a Hindu widow and with all the incidents of a widow's estate except the liability to be divested, but nevertheless a life estate rather than an estate of inheritance.
The learned counsel in support of his contention drew our attention to a number of decisions of different High Courts and contended that the words of this will should be construed in the manner as more or less similar words were construed by the courts in the wills dealt with in those decisions.
The provisions contained in this will bear no analogy to those we have to construe.
And my wife has powers to do in the same way as I have absolute powers to do when I am present, and in case of my wife's death, my daughter Mahalaxmi is owner of the said property after that.
" 29.  It was held upon the construction of the will that the nephew, who lived amicably with the widow till his death, had a vested interest at testator's death which could not be defeated by a testamentary disposition by the widow in favour of a stranger.
If the same line of reasoning is adopted here, the decision of the case would go against the client of Mr. K. section K. Iyengar because in the will in this case the widow's estate is delimited by the words "till your lifetime.
But, on the other hand, she would have certain rights as a Hindu widow; for example, she would have the right under certain circumstances, if the estate were insufficient to defray the funeral expenses or her maintenance, to alienate it altogether.
The decision of the appeal thus turns upon the question whether the testator's intention was to give to his widow ail ordinary life, estate or an estate analogous to that of a Hindu widow.
9.  The widow cannot be held to have been given a full Hindu widow's estate under the will unless it can be said that under its terms she was given the power of alienation for necessary purposes, whether in express terms or by necessary implication.
We therefore hold that the estate conferred on Ranganayaki Ammal was more like the limited estate in the English sense of the term than like a full Hindu widow's estate in spite of the directions above- mentioned.
During the pendency of the appeal the widow died on 14th February, 1948.
On 21st February, 1928, she settled the maintenance claim of Lakshmi Ammal and obtained a deed of release from her by paying her a sum of Rs. 3,350 in cash and by executing in her favour an agreement stipulating to pay her a sum of Rs. 240 per annum.
In this judgment the following observations were emphasized as relevant to this enquiry:- "It has been contended that these latter expressions qualify the generality of the former expressions, and that the will, taken as a whole, must be construed as intimating the intention of the testator that Mst.
17.  Reliance was next placed on the decision in Pavani Subbamma v. Ammala Rama Naidu (1937) 1 M.L.J. 268.  1936 Indlaw MAD 236 Under the will there dealt with, the widow S, was to enjoy the properties and after her lifetime the properties were to be taken in the ratio of three to five by the son's daughter and the daughter's son respectively.
It was argued that such a power was implicit within the acts she was authorized to do, that is to say, when she was directed to pay the debts and settle the maintenance of Ramalakshmi it was implicit within these directions that for these purposes, if necessity arose, she could alienate the properties.
It was not contested before us that a Hindu can by will create a life estate, or successive life estates, or any other estate for a limited term, provided the donee or the persons taking under it are capable of taking under a deed or will.
On the 24th July, 1945, the widow describing herself as an absolute owner of the properties of her husband sold one of the items of the property to the 2nd defendant for Rs. 500.
This was a case of a gift inter vivos.
It would also follow that she would completely represent the estate, and under certain circumstances the statute of limitations might run against the heirs to the estate, whoever they might be.
By this will he gave the following directions -- "After my lifetime, you, the aforesaid Ranganayaki Amminal, my wife, shall till your lifetime, enjoy the aforesaid entire properties, the outstandings due to me, the debts payable by me, and the chit amounts payable by me.
18.  This decision therefore goes against the contention of the learned counsel but he placed reliance on the observations made in the judgment when the learned Judge proceeded to say: "In deference to the view taken in Maharaja of Kolhapur v. sundaram Iyer (1925) I.L.R. 48 Mad. 1, it may be possible to create an interest analogous to a woman's estate in Hindu law notwithstanding the addition of a gift over and that the estate taken by section need not necessarily be only a life estate in the English law sense of the term.
The extent of the grant, so far as the properties mentioned in the schedule are concerned, to the daughter and the widow is the same.
If both of them would live together amicably, Muthu Arunachala Chetty himself would enjoy the properties which remain after the death of the widow.
She had complete control over the income of the property during her lifetime but she had no power to deal with the corpus of the estate and it had to be kept intact for the enjoyment of the daughter.
It may be assumed that a Hindu generally desires that an estate, especially an ancestral estate, shall be retained in his family; and it may be assumed that a Hindu knows that, as a general rule, at all events, women do not take absolute estates of inheritance which they are enabled to alienate.
8.  If the testator had before his mind's eye his daughter and her heirs as the ultimate beneficiaries of his bounty, that intention could only be achieved by giving to the widow a limited estate, because by conferring a full Hindu widow's estate on her the daughter will, only have a mere spes successions under the Hindu law which may or may not mature and under the will her interest would Only be a contingent one in what was left indisposed of by the widow.
