It is the case of the prosecution that for non-payment of dowry, the accused persons harassed the deceased and subjected her to cruelty.
The offences having been proved against the accused and keeping in view the attendant circumstances, we are of the considered view that ends of justice would be met, if the punishment awarded to the appellants is reduced.
The definition of "dowry" under section 2 of the Act reads as under: "2.
We have examined the provisions of section 2 of the Act in a very limited sphere to deal with the contentions raised in regard to the applicability of the provisions of Section 304-B of the Code.
Dr. M. Madhusudana Reddy, LW-13 who was the Associate Professor in Forensic Medicine at Guntur Medical College, performed the post-mortem over the body of the deceased.
These amendments appear to have been made with the intention to cover all demands at the time, before and even after the marriage so far they were in connection with the marriage of the said parties.
13.  LW-7 stated on oath that he was present at the time of giving of dowry to the accused by the family of the deceased.
30.  The High Court acquitted Pathan Khadar Basha, the fatherin-law of the deceased, as there was no direct evidence against him.
At this stage, it will be appropriate for us to examine as to what are the ingredients of an offence punishable under Section 304B of the IPC.
This was done in the presence of LW-10 and LW-11, Shaik Ibrahim and Mohd. Ghouse, respectively.
When the parents of the deceased came to the house of the accused and found the deceased hanging from the beam with a saree, they untied her and took her to the Government General Hospital, Guntur hoping that the deceased may be alive.
Accused Pathan Hussain Basha, when he had gone to the parental house of the deceased, demanded different items like fan, ring and Rs. 1,000/in cash, and the balance of the agreed dowry amount.
The witnesses, including LW-1 have stated that for the first few months they were happy, but thereafter, there were quarrels between the accused and the deceased.
Alongside insertion of Section 304-B in IPC, the legislature also introduced Section 113-B of the Evidence Act, which lays down when the question as to whether a person has committed the dowry death of a woman and it is shown that soon before her death such woman had been subjected by such person to cruelty or harassment for, or in connection with, any demand for dowry, the court shall presume that such person had caused the dowry death.
However, there must be existence of proximate link between the acts of cruelty along with the demand of dowry and the death of the victim.
The object being that everything, which is offending at any time i.e. at, before or after the marriage, would be covered under this definition, but the demand of dowry has to be "in connection with the marriage" and not so customary that it would not attract, on the face of it, the provisions of this section.
The FIR in the present case was lodged by LW-1, who is the father of the deceased.
These are the provisions relating to human behaviour and, therefore, cannot be given such a narrower meaning, which would defeat the very purpose of the provisions of the Act Of course, these are penal provisions and must receive strict construction.
27.  The cruelty and harassment by the husband or any relative could be directly relatable to or in connection with, any demand for dowry.
LW-17, P. Devdass, also took photographs of the scene.
Thereafter, investigation was conducted by one Shri P. Devadass, LW-17.
* * * Explanation II.-The expression 'valuable security' has the same meaning as in section 30 of the Penal Code (45 of 1860).
Thereupon, the body was sent for postmortem examination through Constable P. Venkateswara Reddy, LW-15.
If Section 304-B IPC is read together with Section 113-B of the Evidence Act, a comprehensive picture emerges that if a married woman dies in unnatural circumstances at her matrimonial home within 7 years from her marriage and there are allegations of cruelty or harassment upon such married woman for or in connection with demand of dowry by the husband or relatives of the husband, the case would squarely come under "dowry death" and there shall be a presumption against the husband and the relatives.
On 15th February, 2003, a boy had come to him and told him that his daughter had died by hanging herself, whereupon he went to the house of the accused and found that his daughter was hanged to a wooden beam with a saree and she was dead.
The witness could pay only Rs. 500/upon which the accused refused to take the deceased to the matrimonial home and went away.
Again, in Satvir Singh v. State of Punjab, (2001)8 SCC 633 2001 Indlaw SC 224 this Court held that the word "dowry" should be any property or valuable given or agreed to be given in connection with the marriage.
The saree was removed, she was taken to the hospital where she was reported to have 'brought dead'.
Amongst others, lapse of time between the date of marriage and the date of death is also a relevant consideration for the Court while examining whether the essential ingredients of the provision are satisfied or not in a given case.
According to this witness, on 23rd January, 2002, the marriage of his daughter was solemnised with accused Pathan Hussain Basha and he had accepted to give Rs. 25,000/in marriage.
It is of some significance that these expressions should be given appropriate meaning to avoid undue harassment or advantage to either of the parties.
1.  Accused Pathan Hussain Basha, was married to Pathan Haseena Begum (now deceased) on 23rd June, 2002 at Guntur.
Thus, the cruelty, harassment and demand of dowry should not be so ancient, whereafter, the couple and the family members have lived happily and that it would result in abuse of the said protection.
14.  In fact, there is no dispute to the fact that the deceased died of hanging.
In other words, the offence shall be deemed to have been committed by fiction of law.
Later on, the accused came to fetch deceased.
" 8.  The judgment dated 4th October, 2004 passed by the learned Trial Court was challenged in appeal before the High Court.
Similarly, "in connection with the marriage" is an expression which has to be given a wider connotation.
to the parents or guardians of the bride, at the time of settlement of the marriage, prima facie amounts to demand of dowry within the meaning of section 2 of the Act.
Dowry is something which existed in our country for a considerable time and the legislature in its wisdom considered it appropriate to enact the law relating to dowry prohibition so as to ensure that any party to the marriage is not harassed or treated with cruelty for satisfaction of demands in consideration and for subsistence of the marriage.
All three accused used to beat her for the remaining amount of dowry.
When he again invited his son-in-law and the mother-in-law of his daughter, even then he had gifted some presents to them.
She was unable to bear the cruelty to which she was subjected, by the accused persons.
20.  At this stage, it will be appropriate to refer to certain examples showing what has and has not been treated by the courts as "dowry".
29.  Applying these principles to the facts of the present case, it is clear that the ingredients of Section 304B read with Section 498A IPC are completely satisfied in the present case.
While we see no reason to differ with the concurrent findings recorded by the trial court and the High Court, we do see some substance in the argument raised on behalf of the appellants that keeping in view the prosecution evidence, the attendant circumstances, the age of the accused and the fact that they have already being in jail for a considerable period, the Court may take lenient view as far as the quantum of sentence is concerned.
