"Proprietary jagir" has been defined in section 2(xviii) to mean a jagir in respect of which the Jagirdar under the terms of a grant or agreement or by custom or usage is entitled to any rights or interest in the soil.
He pointed out that presumably pursuant to this determination, the Mamlatdar, Idar, had passed an order on November 24, 1959, that the respondent's right to stones and gravel in the two villages of Kapoda and Isarwada, though not to mica, had been recognised by the Government and accordingly the necessary entry pertaining to respondent's right to stones and gravel had been made in the relevant revenue records at least in the case of village Kapoda and had been duly certified.
Appeal dismissed.
section 37(1) of the Code contains the well-known declaratory provision where under all public roads, lanes and paths, the bridges, ditches, dikes, beds of the sea, harbours and creeks below high-water-mark, and of rivers, streams, nallas, lakes and tanks etc.
" Under sub-s.
The enactment as its preamble will show, has been put on the Statute Book with a view to abolishing Jagirs of various kinds in the merged territories and merged areas in the State of Bombay and to provide for matters consequential and incidental thereto.
He, therefore, urged that the High Court was right in quashing the Collector's order dated February 23, 1973.
These aspects bring out true scope and ambit of the inquiry under sec.
it is true that prima facie the owner of the surface of the land would be entitled to everything beneath the land and ordinarily mines and mineral products would pass with the right to the surface but this would be so in the absence of any reservations made in the grant; if there be reservations or qualifications in regard to mines or mineral products, in the grant, then these would not pass.
11.
(2), which we have quoted above, it will appear clear that laying a claim to a property or any right in or over the property either by the State against an individual or by the individual ,against the State is a condition precedent to the Collector's power to hold an inquiry contemplated by that provision.
14.
13.
16.
10.
12.
We find considerable force in this contention.
15.
8.
7.
6.
5.
4.
3.
1.
(2) is rendered final subject to the result of a suit that is required to be instituted in a Civil Court within one year of the said decision.
Ss. 5 and 6 make provision as to what persons, upon abolition of jagirs and conversion of jagir land into unalienated land would be occupants, who shall be primarily liable to the State Government for payment of land revenue.
The rest of the sections are (if formal character and not material for our purposes.
Ss. 13 and 14 provide for methods of awarding compensations to jagirdars by the Collector and against the awards of the Collector under either of these provisions a appeal has been provided at the instance of the aggrieved party to the Revenue Tribunal under s.16.
A similar application, containing similar request, was also made by the respondent to the Mamlatdar Taluka Idar on October 4, 1971.
and all lands wherever situated, which are not the property of individuals, are declared to be, with all rights in or over the same, or appertaining thereto, the property of the Crown; then follows sub-s.
The material on record clearly shows that the respondent could not be said to have done so.
section 2 contains the definitions of various expressions some of which are material.
The appellants seek to challenge the said judgment and order of the Gujarat High Court in this appeal.
He urged that it would be for the Collector acting under section 37(2) of the Bombay Land Revenue Code to decide the latter question in an inquiry initiated under that provision.
in particular the purpose of the said inquiry.
The High Court negatived the contentions urged by the appellants and took the view that in the determination by the competent authority under section 2 (4) (i) of the Act that the respondent's Jagir was a proprietary one there was implicit decision that the respondent was a grantee of the soil which included sub-soil entitling him to mines and mineral products and as such a further inquiry by the Collector under section 37(2) of the Bombay Land Revenue Code was incompetent and without jurisdiction and, therefore, the Collector's order dated February 23, 1973 was liable to be quashed.
The facts giving rise to the said question are these : By Hajur Order No. 116 dated October 27, 1933, the respondent (Maharaj Shri Amar Singji Himatsingji) was granted Daljitgarh Jagir comprising of 10 villages mentioned in the said order in jivarak (for maintenance) by the then Ruler of Idar; by another Hajur Order No. 807 dated January 12, 1934, the respondent was given a further grant in jivarak of 3 villages mentioned in that order with effect from October 1, 1933; by yet another Hajur Order No. 964 dated November 21, 1947, 14 villages (including Kapoda and Isarwada) were granted in jivarak to the respondent by the Ruler of Idar in substitution of the villages mentioned in the previous two orders.
If and when he prefers a claim to this particular mineral productfrom other villages comprised in his grant or to the other mines ormineral products in all the villages including Isarwada and Kapodaan inquiry into such claim under section 37(2) could be held, but even the decision at such inquiry would be subject to adjudication by a Civil Court in appropriate proceedings, for the final pronouncement on such rights must, as is clear from the scheme ,of the Bombay Land Revenue Code, always rest with the Civil Court.
In such an inquiry ordinarily no determination of any rights of the Jagirdar to mines or mineral products in a Jagir village will be undertaken for' no compensation is payable in respect of any rights to mines and mineral products in a Jagir village.
Admittedly, on the coming into force of the Bombay Merged Territories and Areas (Jagirs Abolition) Act, 1953 (hereinafter referred to as "the Act") i.e. with effect from respondent's Daljitgarh Jagir stood abolished and all his rights in the Jagir villages, save as expressly provided by or under the Act, were extinguished and the respondent became entitled to compensation under section 11 of the Act.
Having regard to the rival contentions of the parties summarised above, it will appear clear that really two questions-one general and the other specific in the light of the facts obtaining in the instant case, arise for our determination in this appeal.
" section 11 (1) provides for the quantum of compensation payable to a non-proprietary jagirdar on account of abolition of his jagir and extinguishment of his rights, while section 11(2) makes similar provision for quantum of compensation to a proprietary jagirdar on account of the abolition of 'his jagir and extinguishment of his rights.
The aforesaid survey of the material provisions of the Act will bring out two or three aspects very clearly.
Moreover, having regard to the statement made by counsel for the respondent before us it would be unfair to subject the respondent to the further inquiry under section 37(2) of the Code.
section 2(vii) defines "jagirdar" as meaning a holder of a jagir village and includes his co-sharer.
The question in the instant case is whether the respondent by making the two applications, one dated October 11, 1968 to the Collector of Sabarkantha and the other dated October 4, 1971, to the Mamlatdar, Taluka Idar, could be said to have put forward or laid a claim to a right to excavate gravel and stone a particular mineral product-so as to afford an occasion for the Collector to initiate the inquiry.
section 17 provides the procedure for disposal of appeals by the Revenue Tribunal while section 18 prescribes a period of limitation for preferring such appeals and section 20 gives finality to the award made by the Collector subject to appeal to the Revenue Tribunal.
In this case also notwithstanding the alleged unqualified grant in favour of the respondent the Mamladar's order dated November 24, 1959, on which the respondent strongly relies, has held that the rights to excavate mica were retained by the State and not granted to the respondent, though the material or basis on which it is so held is not available on the record.
Besides, while determining the proprietary nature of the grant under section 2(4)(1) of the Act the competent authority had, on evidence led before it, alluded among others to the respondent's right to excavate and sell gravel and stones and enjoyment thereof by the respondent.
on a reading of sub-s.
Accordingly, the High Court set aside the Collector's order and further issued an injunction permanently restraining the State of Gujarat and the Collector from initiating any inquiry under section 37(2) in respect of the respondents rights to mines and mineral products in the said villages.
section 2(vi) defines the expression "jagir" as meaning the grant by or recognition as a grant by, the ruling authority for the time being before the merger of a village, whether such grant is of the soil or an assignment of land revenue or both; there is also an inclusive part of definition with which we are not concerned.
There is yet one more aspect emerging from the definition of the expression "proprietary jagir" which leads to the same inference.
According to the respondent by these grants (parvanas) read together he was given full proprietary rights in the soil of the said villages, that is to say, it was a proprietary Jagir that was granted to him by the then Ruler.
That being the position, there was no occasion for the Collector to initiate the inquiry under section 37(2) of the Code-in fact, he had no jurisdiction to do so, the condition precedent not being satisfied.
In this view of the matter, we feel that the High Court was right in its final conclusion whereby it has quashed the inquiry initiated by the Collecor under section 37(2) of the Code and issued the necessary injunction prayed for by the respondent.
As a consequence of the, abolition of jagirs under section 3 all Jagir villages became unalienated villages and, therefore, under section 4 it has been provided that all Jagir villages shall be liable to the payment of land revenue in accordance with the provisions of the Code and the Rules made thereunder and the provisions of the Code and the Rules relating to unalienated land shall apply to such villages.
Learned counsel for the appellants has contended that the High Court has adopted an erroneous view of the scope and ambit of the inquiry contemplated under section 2(4)(i) of the Act by the competent authority in as much as under the said provision the competent authority had power merely to decide the question whether the respondents Jagir was a proprietary or a non-proprietary Jagir and had no Dower or jurisdiction to determine whether on the appointed date that is on August 1, 1954 when the Act, came into force the respondent had subsisting rights to mines and minerals products in the Jagir villages so as to be saved under section 10 of the Act.
He urged that having regard to such determination that was made by the competent authority under section 2 (4) (i) of the Act it would be clear that a further inquiry into the respondent's rights to mines and mineral products, particularly gravel and stones under section 37(2) of the Code would be misconceived and incompetent.
(2) which is material and it runs thus: "37(2) Where any property or any right in or over any property is claimed by or on behalf of the Crown or by any person as against the Crown, it shall be lawful for the Collector or a survey officer, after formal inquiry of which due notice has been given, to pass an order deciding the claim.
It is thus clear that by these two applications the respondent had not put forward any claim as such to excavating gravel and stones for the first time' but, had merely requested the making of appropriate entry with regard to his said right which had already been recognised by the State Government previously.
