" 20.  Clause (1) requires that all executive action of the State Government shall have to be taken in the name of the Governor.
A claim based on merely legitimate expectation without anything more cannot ipso facto give a right.
It is a well meant caution.
v. Hindustan Development Corporation and Others, AIR (1994) SC 9981993 Indlaw SC 1085).
5.  As there was no inducement or assurance, the question of any promissory estoppel did not arise.
Appeals disposed of
In any event, before withdrawal of the benefits, no opportunity of hearing was granted.
(6) The Order granting subsidy can be withdrawn in public interest.
Etc.
The said provision reads as follows: "166.
of Tamil Nadu & Ors., on 27.1.1984 and in C.A. 8605/2002 i.e. Bannari Amman Sugars Ltd v. Commercial Tax Officer & Ors.
The principle, set out above, was reiterated by Lord Denning in High Trees's case (supra) This principle has been evolved by equity to avoid injustice.
The Courts are not very good at formulating or evaluating policy.
A restriction cannot be said to be unreasonable merely because in a given case, it operates harshly.
Nor is the test Court's own standard of reasonableness as it might conceive it in a given situation.
But that principle does not create any cause of action, which did not exist before; so that, where a promise is made which is not supported by any consideration, the promise cannot bring an action on the basis of that promise.
Contrary to what the High Court has stated, it appears from record that counter affidavits were filed.
The doctrine does not give scope to claim relief straightway from the administrative authorities as no crystallized right as such involved.
As cautioned in Attorney General for New South wale's case the Courts should restrain themselves and respect such claims duly to the legal limitations.
The meaning and true import and concept of arbitrariness is more easily visualized than precisely defined.
Something overwhelming must appear before the Court will intervene.
The appellants only made representation to Government subsequently claiming exemption at par with the cooperative and public sector mills.
In Kasinka Trading and Anr.
Every State action must be informed by reason and it follows that an act uninformed by reason is per se arbitrary.
With reference to the files produced, certain factual conclusions were arrived at, the correctness of those form the core challenge in these appeals.
9.  No vested right as to tax holding is acquired by a person who is granted concession.
on 22.1.1986.
It is, therefore, clear that the choice of police is for the decision-maker and not the Court.
That principle was adopted by this Court in Union of India v. Indo-Afghan Agencies Ltd., AIR (1968) SC 718 1967 Indlaw SC 411 and Turner Morrison and Co. Ltd. v. Hungerford Investment Trust Ltd., [1972] 1 SCC 857 1972 Indlaw SC 190.
8.
Similar view was expressed in M/s. Pawan Alloys and Casting Pvt.
Dixon, J. an Australian Jurists, in Grundt v. Great Boulder Gold Mines Prorietary Ltd., [1939] 59 CLR 641 (Aust) laid down as under: "It is often said simply that the party asserting the estoppel must have been induced to act to his detriment.
The appellants were taken by surprise by production of materials which were not even disclosed to the appellants.
Its uniqueness lies in the fact that it covers the entire span of time; present, past and future.
(See Union of India and Others.
On the contrary, curial views of policy have been subjected to stringent criticism.
Such a plea is clearly unsustainable.
That is and ought to be a difficult onus for an applicant to discharge.
Where a particular mode is prescribed for doing an act and there is no impediment in adopting the procedure, the deviation to act in different manner which does not disclose any discernible principle which is reasonable itself small be labelled as arbitrary.
(5) No prejudice is caused to the respondents since the scheme was interested to make the units viable and the modified scheme provides for safeguards to that extent.
22.  In Shrijee Sales Corporation and Anr.
13.  As Professor Wade points out (in Administrative Law by H.W.R. Wade, 6th Edition) there is ample room within the legal boundaries for radical differences of opinion in which neither side is unreasonable.
In other words, there was clear violation of the principles of natural justice.
The same also needs to be examined.
The appellants questioned legality or the G.O.Ms No. 989 dated 1.9.1988 directing discontinuance of purchase tax exemption in case of mills which exceeded the ceiling of Rs. 300 lakes during the period of five years, and Government letter dated 28.12.1988 which made the aforesaid G.O. Ms. No. 989 of 1.9.1988 operative retrospectively from 1.4.1988.
11.  While the discretion to change the policy in exercise of the executive power, when not trammelled by any statute or rule is wide enough, what is imperative and implicit in terms of Article 14 is that a change in policy must be made fairly and should not give impression that it was so done arbitrarily or by any ulterior criteria.
[See Century Spinning Co. v. Ulhasnagar Municipal Council, AIR (1971) SC 1021 1970 Indlaw SC 341, Radhakrishna v. State of Bihar, AIR (1977) SC 1496 1977 Indlaw SC 282, Motilal Padampat Sugar Mills Co. Ltd. v. State of U.P., [1979] 2 SCC 409 1978 Indlaw SC 56, Union of India v. Godfrey Philips Indian Ltd., [1985] 4 SCC 369 1985 Indlaw SC 275 and Dr. Ashok Kumar Maheshwari v. State of U.P. & Another, (1998) 2 Supreme 100 1998 Indlaw SC 1376].
Otherwise, a resourceful litigant having vested interest in contract, licences, etc. can successfully indulge in getting welfare activities mandated by directing principles thwarted to further his own interest.
The leading case on the subject is Central London Property Trust Ltd. v. High Trees House Ltd., [1947] 1 K.B. 130.
21.  In order to invoke the doctrine of promissory estoppel clear, sound and positive foundation must be laid in the petition itself by the party invoking and doctrine the bald expressions without any supporting material to the effect that the doctrine is attracted because the party invoking the doctrine has altered its position relying on the assurance of the Government would not be sufficient to press into aid the doctrine.
18.  Reasonableness of restriction is to be determined in an objective manner and from the standpoint of interest of the general public and not from the standpoint of the interests of persons upon whom the restrictions have been imposed or upon abstract consideration.
Legitimacy of an expectation can be inferred only if it is founded on the sanction of law.
How significant is the statement that today is tomorrows' yesterday.
The plea of the appellants regarding legitimate expectation shall be considered by the High Court in the light of materials to be placed by the respondents by affidavits as directed above.
It is nether in the realm of contract nor in the realm of estoppel.
This means that the real detriment or harm from which the law seeks to give protection is that which would flow from the change of position if the assumptions were deserted that led to it".
What the Court has to see is whether the substance of its requirement has been complied with.
Estoppel is a rule of equity which has gained new dismensions in recent years.
4.  In response, learned counsel for the respondent-State submitted that the appellants have failed to adduce any evidence or material to show that were in any way induced by any governmental action to set up industries.
Canalisation of a particular business in favour of even a specified individual is reasonable where the interests of the country are concerned or where the business affects the economy of the country.
The rule laid down in High Trees case (supra), again came up for consideration before the King's Bench in Combe v. Bombe, [1951] 2 K.B. 215.
The High Court recorded the following findings on the factual aspects.
The Government's letter dated 28.12.1988 refers to some decision, but in the absence of any authentication as required under Article 166 of the Constitution of India, 1950 (in short the 'Constitution') the same is ineffective.
The wide sweep of Article 14 and the requirement of every State action qualifying for its validity on this touchstone irrespective of the field of activity of the State is an accepted tenet.
Its object is to interpose equity shorn of its form to mitigate the rigour of strict law, as noted in Anglo Afghan Aencies's case1967 Indlaw SC 411 (supra) and Sharma Transport Represented by D.P. Sharma v. Government of A.P. and Others, [2002] 2 SCC 188 2001 Indlaw SC 19917.
Sometimes when the Courts have intervened on policy grounds the Court's view of the range of policies open under the statute or of what is unreasonable policy has not got public acceptance.
At this juncture we would like to take note to certain factual positions highlighted by the appellants which are practically undisputed by the respondents.
There was no scope for any mis-understanding that it applied to any private sector participation in the sphere of sugar manufacturing.
17.  If the State acts within the bounds of reasonableness, it would be legitimate to take into consideration the national priorities and adopt trade policies.
It can be one of the grounds to consider, but the Court must lift the veil and see whether the decision is violative of these principles warranting interference.
The principle enunciated in the High Trees case (supra), was also recognized by the House of Lords in Tool Metal Manufacturing Co. Ltd. v. Tungsten Electric Co. Ltd., [1955] 2 All E.R. 657 : [1955] 1 W.L.R. 761.
Actions are amenable, in the panorama of judicial review only to the extent that the State must act validity for discernible reasons, not whimsically for any ulterior purpose.
For legal purposes, expectation is not same as anticipation.
While clause (1) is in relation to the mode of expression, clause (2) lays down the ways in which the order is to be authenticated.
15.  As was observed in Punjab Communications Ltd. v. Union of India of Others, AIR (1999) SC 1801 1999 Indlaw SC 1548, the change in policy can defeat a substantive legitimate expectation if it can be justified on "Wednesbury reasonableness.
The reasons which have weighed with the High Court to uphold the action of the State were not pleaded before the High Court specifically, and the High Court cull out those from the files which were produced before it.
