Similarly, out of the 50% of the seats to be filled up by the Management in accordance  of the said order, half shall be payment seats and the other half free seats.
Conservators, Forest.
It would appear that at present there are 215 direct recruits and 100 promotee Asstt.
Therefore, they are entitled to only 33 1/3 per cent quota.
We make it clear that regarding the character of these institutions - whether they are Minority Educational Institutions - we express no opinion.
In the counter- affidavit filed by the State it is stated that as on December 1, 1980 both permanent and temporary posts were 131.
" Thereafter the matter was considered by the Constitution Bench in its order dated August 18, 19932.
Notice be issued to the Attorney General of India and the Advocates General for the States on the questions as reframed.
Any such irregularity if proved may entail serious consequences.
Their continuous length of ad hoc service from the date of their initial appointment cannot be counted towards seniority.
They shall also bring any such violation to the notice of this Court by way of any interlocutory application.
Shri R.K. Garg for the promotees contended that as on August 31, 1982 selection of the promotees on regular basis to fill up the posts of Asstt.
Similar exercise for each year in which the substantive vacancies had arisen should be done.
The system obtaining in this State appears to be that the entire fees collected by these private engineering colleges has to be made over to the Government while the Government bears the entire expenditure for running the colleges.
Issue rule.
The contempt petitions are accordingly disposed of.
Their appointments were dehors the rules.
After completing the admissions, the petitioners shall furnish full particulars of the students admitted, the categories, if any, whereunder they were admitted and all other particulars relating to their admission.
Written submissions (in brief) should be submitted by learned counsel by July 13, 1994.
12.
It was further made clear that this was a special provision made only for that year.
For admission in the last academic session 1993-94, an interim order in the following terms was made by a Bench comprising Hon'ble the Chief Justice and one of us (Justice B.P. Jeevan Reddy) on May 14, 1993 in Writ Petition Nos. 350 and 355 of 1993: " We have heard Shri Soli J. Sorabjee, learned Senior Counsel for the petitioners in these two writ petitions.
11.
Therefore, as on March II, 1985, the total posts available were 258.
The authorities to which the statements are submitted shall verify the correctness of the statements and, if they find any irregularity, they shall call upon the college concerned to rectify the same.
The directions issued in K. C Joshi case' have already been extracted and their need to reiterate is obviated.
In these matters relating to admission to professional courses in medicine, engineering, pharmacy, nursing, etc.
10.
9.
8.
4.
6.
5.
4.
3.
2.
1.
Candidates so selected on the basis of merit amongst the minorities shall, however, abide by such condition in the matter of payment of tuition and other fee as may be permitted by the State Government.
It is optional for the petitioners to adopt any one of these three modes and apply it uniformally.
Similarly as regards Writ Petition No. 482 of 1993, it was observed that according to the petitioner in that case the medical college run by it at Vellore in the State of Tamil Nadu is a well-reputed institution, admission to which is made on the basis of All India entrance test conducted by the petitioner and that the admissions are made on the basis of merit and the fee charged by it is not more than the fees chargeable in similar governmental institutions and that there has never been any complaint about the working of this institution and it was observed that this fact was not disputed by Shri Seetharaman, learned counsel for the State of Tamil Nadu.
14.
The direct recruits were appointed in accordance with Rule 5(a) read with Appendix A of U.P. Forest Service Rules, 1952 for short 'the Rules'.
This order shall be Shahal H. Musaliar v. State of Kerala, (1993) 4 SCC 112 1993 Indlaw SC 575 applicable only to those institutions which are found to be MEIs on verification by the Government and not to those who are not found to be MEIs on such verification.
These directions would meet the exigencies.
Therefore, they are entitled to the seniority from the respective years.
As regards the institutions in the State of Kerala which are governed by the terms of agreements with the Government of Kerala, the admissions to such institutions would be made in accordance with those agreements.
(ii) The remaining fifty per cent of the intake may be regulated by the petitioners to admit candidates belonging to the particular religious or linguistic minority.
" Separate directions were, however, given in respect of institutions referred to in Writ Petitions Nos. 284 and 482 of 1993.
Therefore, the State has to determine whether the posts are likely to be made permanent or abolished.
It is a policy matter.
We do not more particularly at this stage - make any pronouncement in that behalf.
Since the process of selection of candidates for admission for the next academic session is to commence soon, it is necessary to pass an interim order governing admission to the professional courses in Minority Educational Institutions for the next academic session.
" The petitioners therein had not filed any objection, despite giving time, but it was directed that the State would consider their cases even if they make any representation.
In the absence of such list, they can themselves devise the method for such selection.
When the matters were taken up on March 16, 1994, the Court felt that it was necessary to reframe the first two questions.
As on February 12, 1986, 203 posts were existing.
There is no rota prescribed in the rules.
In the event of converting them as permanent under Rule 24, the quota prescribed in Rule 6 would be applied to substantive posts.
It is, therefore, incumbent upon the State Government to find out how many vacancies were existing in the year 1974-75 and thereafter every year and to determine as to how the respective posts stood reserved for the direct recruits and promotees in accordance with the quota.
Therefore, the State is enjoined to implement the judgment of this Court in the light of the statutory rules.
13.
In, pursuance of the said order, this Bench has been constituted.
It is open to the respondents to question this status claimed by the petitioners.
It would, therefore, not be feasible to take up the hearing of these matters before the Court closes for the long vacation.
Conservator, Forest for the years 1973-74 to 1979-80 had taken place by a regularly constituted selection committee which selected 140 candidates for appointment.
All the employees are entitled to all consequential benefits.
Since the seniority, as per the direction of this Court, was made only to substantive posts, some of the direct recruits became temporary direct recruits and the seniority was determined accordingly.
In the aforesaid order dated October 7, 19933, with reference to the Minority Educational Institutions in the State of Kerala (such as those covered by Writ Petition No. 598 of 1993) it has been observed: "The system obtaining in Kerala appears to be altogether different which was unfortunately not brought to our notice on August 18, 1993.
Similarly as on January 1, 1975, the ratio was increased to 33 1/3 per cent, namely, 66 2/3 per cent to the direct recruits and 33 1/3 per cent to the promotees.
Until they are appointed by the Governor according to the rules, they do not become the members of the service in a substantive capacity.
(ii) of para (2) of this order.
When it came up for hearing on August 23, 1991, this Court observed thus : "We are told by the counsel for the State of U.P. that for the purpose of working out the seniority draft list has been prepared and was in circulation inviting objections.
The order dated May 14, 1993, was made applicable to the institutions falling in categories (1), (2) and (3) with the modification that following were added in continuation of the said order: " In continuation it is made further clear that whether any of the petitioner-institutions is a MEI or not is a matter for the Government to verify and determine.
As in the year 1990, 72 more posts were created and the total posts are now 330.
Such statements shall contain as full a particulars as possible.
Thereby, the action of the State is in defiance of the direction issued by this Court.
After exhausting the exercise the remaining candidates awaiting appointment would continue to be temporary until they get due placement or fixation of their seniority.
Treating them to be temporary as shown in the seniority list prepared by the State is in utter contempt of the directions in Joshi case1.
It is also contended that the promotees are entitled, in terms of the judgment in K.C. Joshi case' for appointment by promotion to substantive vacancies within their quota in the respective years and that therefore, their seniority should be counted from the years in which they started discharging their duties as Asstt.
