" 12.
15,000-00 3.
" We must, however, notice that the provisions the Act make a distinction between the 'literary work' and 'dramatic work'.
Yakshagana Ballet dance as developed by Dr. Karanth was performed in New Delhi on or about 18.9.2001.
Malini Mallya alone.
No one else shall have any right or claims for the same.
(3) In sub-section (1), references to the author shall, in the case of a pseudonymous work of joint authorship, be construed,- (a) where the names of one or more (but not all) of the authors arc pseudonymous and his or their identity is not disclosed, as references to the author whose name is not a pseudonym, or, if the names of two or more of the authors are not pseudonyms, as references to such of those authors who dies last; (b) where the names of one or more (but not all) of the authors arc pseudonyms and the identity of one or more of them is disclosed, as references to the author who dies last from amongst the authors whose names are not pseudonyms and the authors whose names are pseudonyms and are disclosed; and (c) where the names of all the authors arc pseudonyms and the identity of one of them is disclosed, as references to the author whose identity is disclosed or if the identity of two or more of such authors is disclosed, as references to such of those authors who dies last.
These prasangas are: (i) Bhishma Vijaya; (ii) Nala Damayanthi; (iii) Kanakangi or Kanakangi Kalyana; (iv) Abhimanyu or Abhimanyu Vada; (v) Chitrangadha or Babruvahana Kalaga; (vi) Panchavati; and (vii) Ganga Charitha.
By reason of a judgment and decree dated 14.11.2003, the District Judge, Udupi decreed the said suit declaring the plaintiff - respondent as a person having the exclusive copyright in respect of seven Prasangas and that she had acquired the same by reason of a Will as a residuary legatee and the defendants - appellants or their employees or agents were restrained from performing the said seven ballets or Prasangas or any parts thereof in any manner as evolved distinctively by Dr. Karanth.
Appeal dismissed.
Yet again, if such performance is conducted before a non-paying audience by the appellant, which is an institution if it comes within the purview of amateur club or society, the same would not constitute any violation of the said order of injunction.
belonging to me into this house 'Manasa' and my Car and cash money in hand after my death shall go to Smt.
Copyrighted material is that what is created by the author by his own skill, labour and investment of capital, maybe it is a derivative work which gives a flavour of creativity.
1. Leave granted.
Whatever movable properties, books, fittings, furniture, utensils etc.
In R.G. Anand vs M/s Delux Films & ors.
A declaratory decree, therefore, was passed.
The Copyright Act, 1957 (for short, "the Act") was enacted to amend and consolidate the law relating to copyright.
17.
Where the same idea is being developed in a different manner, it is manifest that the source being common, similarities are bound to occur.
The High Court, in our opinion, should have clarified that the appellants can also take the statutory benefit of the provisions contained in clauses (a), (i) and (l) of sub-section (1) of Section 52 of the Act.
Directing the Defendants to pay future interest on Rs.15,000/- at 15% p.a. till payment of the entire amount.
11.
And in this occasion I must also acknowledge with gratitude that she diligently cared and nursed my wife Leela Karanth during her prolonged illness till her last day.
21.
" 20.
7.
6.
5.
4.
3.
2.
19.
16.
P-1.
10.
9.
8.
7.
6.
.................... 6. ...................." 5.
5.
3.
Section 2(qq) defines "performer" to include an actor, singer, musician, dancer, acrobat, juggler, conjurer, snake charmer, a person delivering a lecture or any other person who makes a performance.
Section 2(c) defines 'artistic work' to mean (i) a painting, a sculpture, a drawing (including a diagram, map, chart or plan), an engraving or a photograph, whether or not any such work possesses artistic quality; (ii) a work of architecture; and (iii) any other work of artistic craftsmanship.
The courts while passing a decree for permanent injunction would avoid multiplicity of proceedings.
It has its own heritage.
Apart from this, she has collected and edited all my stray writings from 1924 onwards up to date in eight Sumptuous volumes which are being published by Mangalore University.
" 14.
She had joined my service as Copyist and later, she secured an employment in Life Insurance Corporation of India.
23 - Term of copyright in anonymous and pseudonymous works.- (1) In the case of a literary, dramatic, musical or artistic work (other than a photograph), which is published anonymously or pseudonymously, copyright shall subsist until sixty years from the beginning of the calendar year next following the year in which the work is first published: Provided that where the identity of the author is disclosed before the expiry of the said period, copyright shall subsist until sixty years from the beginning of the calendar year following the year in which the author dies.
Appellants are, thus, before us.
The residuary clause will apply because it is well settled that no part of the stay lies in limbo.
The learned trial judge recognized the equitable interest vested in the plaintiff - respondent.
In recognition of her devotion and sincere affection towards me in 1986 I have dedicated one of my novels namely, "Antida Aparanji" to her.
And I have distributed all copper and bronze vessels and utensils among my children while leaving my former home "Suhasa" keeping only bare essential and necessary things and articles.
Indisputably, Dr. Kota Shivarama Karanth (for short, "Dr. Karanth"), a Jnanapeeth awardee, who was a Novelist, Play Writer, Essayist, Encyclopediationist, Cultural Anthropologist, Artist, Writer of Science, Environmentalist.
This work also has brought her deserving fame and appreciation of Scholars.
Explanation.- For the purposes of this clause, communication through satellite or cable or any other means of simultaneous communication to more than one household or place of residence including residential rooms of any hotel or hostel shall be deemed to be communication to the public" Section 2 (ffa) defines the word "composer", in relation to a musical work, to mean the person who composes the music regardless of whether he records it in any form of graphical notation.
Even so, if the viewer after seeing the film gets a totality of impression that the film is by and large a copy of the original play, violation of the copyright may be said to be proved." Yet again in Eastern Book Company & ors vs D.B. Modak & Anr.
Whatever she may earn thereby shall be her exclusive income and property.
I have also placed on record her invaluable services to me in my Memoirs, "Hunchu Mansina Hathu Mukhagalu" 1991 Edition.
It was also not a case where respondent in any manner whatsoever waived her right.
The new Encyclopaedia Britannica (Vol-IV) 15th Edition, provides the following information about "Dramatic Literature. "Dramatic Literature: the texts of plays that can be read, as distinct from being seen and heard in performance.
But, that is not all, in the 'Will'-Ex.
He was a Director of the appellant - institute.
Such painstaking service in this direction has brought to light several of my hitherto untraced, forgotten and unknown writings and thereby giving them extended or renewed lease of life.
Appellants aggrieved thereby and dissatisfied therewith preferred an appeal before the Karnataka High Court which was marked as R.F.A. No. 271 of 2004.
The learned trial judge on issue No. 4 opined that plaintiff had not been able to prove actual loss or damage particularly having regard to the fact that Dr. Karanth had associated himself with the appellants for a long time.
On or about 18.6.1994, he executed a Will in favour of the respondent.
Therefore, necessity of mentioning copyright separately in respect of dramatic works does not arise.
In my opinion, very long enduring and a signal service she has done to me and to my literary works is, in writing a bibliography of all my books- a highly meritorious and scholarly work involving so much of pains taking research, that it has been acclaimed and rated as the first of its kind in Kannada and highly appreciated by Critics and Scholars.
If the defendant's work is nothing but a literal imitation of the copyrighted work with some variations here and there it would amount to violation of the copyright.
With the aforementioned modification in the order of injunction, this appeal is dismissed.
[(1978) 4 SCC 118]1978 Indlaw SC 294, this Court held: "Thus, on a careful consideration and elucidation of the various authorities and the case law on the subject discussed above, the following propositions emerge: 1.
It was stated that Dr. Karanth had composed seven verses or prasangas for staging Yaksharanga Ballet apart from bringing in changes in the traditional form thereof on its relevant aspects, namely, Raga, Tala, Scenic arrangement, Costumes etc.
In other words, in order to be actionable the copy must be a substantial and material one which at once leads to the conclusion that the defendant is guilty of an act of piracy.
Section 2(h) defines "dramatic work" to include any piece of recitation, choreographic work or entertainment in dumb show, the scenic arrangement or acting, form of which is fixed in writing or otherwise but does not include a cinematograph film.
Explanation- In this section, the reference to the author shall in the case of a work of joint authorship, be construed as a reference to the author who dies last.
