22.  The said decision is not an authority for the proposition that the principles of natural justice are required to be complied with in all situations.
2.  One Shri A.J. Tayeng was the Revenue Commissioner of Government of Manipur.
15.  If the offers of appointments issued in favour of the respondents herein were forged documents, the State could not have been compelled to pay salaries to them from the State exchequer.
Even assuming that DPC would mean Selection Committee, there is noting on record to show who were its members and how and at whose instance it was constituted.
The State proceeded on the said basis.
How the matter was referred to the DPC has not been disclosed.
6.  The respondents herein filed writ petitions before the High Court on 4.06.1998 questioning the said order of cancellation of their appointments.
The shortcomings in the work are required to be brought to the notice of the Legal Remembrancer.
It is in these circumstances that this Court held that the wholesale termination of their services was arbitrary and violative of article 14 of the Constitution.
In this regard, I have apprised the matter to the Hon'ble Minister (Revenue) already and also informed the Chief Secretary, Manipur explaining that the Secretary (Revenue) cannot make such appointments of field staffs, even if he wanted to do so, all the relevant files should have been routed through the undersigned so that the same may be brought to the notice of the Hon'ble Minister (Revenue).
A sample copy of the offer of appointment reads as under: "No. 1/14/97 Com (Rev): On the recommendation of D.P.C. and under the directives issued by the Hon'ble Gauhati High Court, the following persons are hereby appointed as Mandols on temporary basis in the scale of pay of Rs. 950-20-1150-EB-25-1400/- per month with usual allowances against thereto existing clear vacancies of Mandals under Revenue Department from the date of their joining on duties.
A corrigendum thereto was, however, issued on 21.02.1998 stating: "No. 2/15/93-Com(Rev) Temp-I: Please read as "August/97" in place of "October/97" occurring in the 4th line of this Government order No. 2/15/93 Com(Rev) Temp-I dated 17-2-1998.
It appears that the appointment orders were issued after complying the formalities prescribed there for which can be ascertained from the relevant official file.
They had inter alia prayed for issuance of a writ of or in the nature of mandamus.
The State of Manipur had not framed any recruitment rules for appointment inter alia in the Revenue Department and in particular the field staff thereof.
We may also state that there is yet another line of cases as in State Bank of Patiala v. S.K. Sharma, Rajendra Singh v. State of M.P. 1994 Indlaw MP 48 that even in relation to statutory provisions requiring notice, a distinction is to be made between cases where the provision is intended for individual benefit and where a provision is intended to protect public interest.
Dated 6th January, 1998 regarding the alleged appointment of ad-hoc/ regular appointment to the post of Lambus/ Mandols etc.
In the former case, it can be waived while in the case of the latter, it cannot be waived.
20.  The respondents, therefore, in our opinion, were not entitled to hold the posts.
We would proceed on the assumption that the State had not framed any recruitment rules in terms of the proviso appended to article 309 of the Constitution of India but the same by itself would not clothe the Commissioner of Revenue to make recruitments in violation of the provisions contained in articles 14 and 16 of the Constitution of India.
It has also not been shown that the vacancies had been notified to the employment exchange.
" 24.  We in the facts and circumstances of this case do not see any arbitrariness on the part of the State in its action directing cancellation of appointments.
The ratio of the said decision can hardly be applied to the appointments of the law officers in the High Court whose appointment itself was arbitrary and was made in disregard of article 14 of the Constitution as pointed out above"[Emphasis added] 26.  In Parshotam Lal Dhingra 1957 Indlaw SC 103 (supra), this Court held that whoever holds civil posts would be entitled to protection of their services in terms of Cl.
Verified that the above statements are true to the best of my knowledge and no part of it is false.
No records there for were available with the State.
If such appointment orders are a nullity, the question of observance of principles of natural justice would not arise" 30.  In Bar Council of India v. High Court of Kerala [(2004) 6 SCC 311  2004 Indlaw SC 340], it was stated: "Principles of natural justice, however, cannot be stretched too far.
Wade says that while futile writs may not be issued, a distinction has to be made according to the nature of the decision.
The same cannot be supplemented by fresh reasons in the shape of affidavit or otherwise.
It will thus be seen that the appointment of the two sets of officers, viz., the Government Counsel in the High Court with whom we are concerned, and the District Government Counsel with whom the said decision was concerned, are made by dissimilar procedures.
In any event, having regard to the fact that the said authority himself had denied to have issued a letter, there was no reason for the State not to act pursuant thereto or in furtherance thereof.
21.  We, as noticed hereinbefore, do not know as to under what circumstances the orders of appointments were issued.
Appointments were made on 11.09.1997, 22.11.1997 and 5.12.1997.
It is now too well settled that every State action, in order to survive, must not be susceptible to the vice of arbitrariness which is the crux of article 14 of the Constitution and basic to the rule of law, the system which governs us.
11.  Mr. S.B. Sanyal, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondents, on the other hand, would submit that the question as to whether the appointments of the respondents were nullities or not having not been raised before the High Court, this Court should not permit the appellants to raise the said contention at this stage.
14.  The offers of appointment issued in favour of the respondents herein were cancelled inter alia on the premise that the same had been done without the knowledge of the Revenue Department of the State.
Thus, in relation to cases other than those relating to admitted or indisputable facts, there is a considerable divergence of opinion whether the applicant can be compelled to prove that the outcome will be in his favour or he has to prove a case of substance or if he can prove a real likelihood of success or if he is entitled to relief even if there is some remote chance of success.
were put-up to me in files and I used to pass order on the basis of facts presented to me in file.
