In this document the date of the conclusion of the contract is given as 3rd December'62 and date of commencement of work as 10th January'63, date of completion of 1st phase 9th October, '63 and second phase 9th May 1964.
The prosecution for offence under section 5(1)(d) therefore is not barred because the proceedings are not without previous sanction which was validly given for the offence of receiving a bribe from Pal Singh, but the offence of habitually receiving illegal gratification could not be taken cognizance of and the prosecution and trial for that offence was void for want-of sanction which is a condition precedent for the Courts taking cognizance of the offence alleged to be committed and therefore the High Court has rightly set aside the conviction for that offence.
In fact as we have noticed earlier this is what Telu Ram says in his evidence, namely that on loan January'63 no delivery of possession of the remaining land other than RD 4500 to 1200 (the land in which there is the existing run-way) was given.
We do not think in these circumstances there is any justification whatever for interfering with the concurrent findings of the Trial Court and the High Court that the Appellant is guilty of an offence under Section 5(1)(c) read with Section 5(2) of the Prevention of Corruption Act and consequently the appeal is dismissed.
It is therefore clear that in estimating the crop, the small portion of the land where crops were stated to have been cut by the 13-2-63 even if true could not have been taken into account.
If it is intended to 'contradict the'- witness by the writing, the attention of the witness should be called before the writing can be proved to those parts of it which are to be used for the purpose of contradicting him.
Even if it were so the sanction cannot be held to be had on that account.
There is also credible evidence that possession of the acquired land was not handed over to the contractor till late in, March '63 though, it was handed over to and, taken over by the Appellant on 13-2-63.
But this was not necessary because Gamkhar was not present nor did he sign the receipt.
Gokulchand Dwarkadas's case also is of no assistance to the appellant because in that case the sanction did not disclose the facts on which it was given but merely sanctioned the prosecution for a breach of certain provisions, Sir John Beamont delivering the Judgement of the Judicial Committee, observed at page 84: "But if the facts constituting the offence charged are not shown on the face of the sanction, the prosecution must prove by extraneous evidence that those, facts were placed before the sanctioning authority...... Nor, in their Lordships' view, is a sanction given without reference to the facts constituting the offence a compliance with the actual terms of cl. 23.
The facts disclose the commission of the offence of criminal misconduct as defined in Section 5(1)(d) read with Section 5(2) of the Prevention of Corruption Act 1947 by Major Som Nath accused.
Both these related to possession of the acquired land not being given to him.
Before the land was actually acquired the Appellant who was a Major in the Military Engineering-Service was working as a Garrison Engineer and was inching of the extension.
The receipt Ex.P.24. 24 bears the signature of N. L. Handa, the Tehsildar and of Sukhchain Lal jain, P.W. 11 on behalf of the Military Estate Officer and the Appellant.
Som Nath for the said offences and for any other offences punishable under the provision of law in respect of the aforesaid acts by the Court of competent jurisdiction.
On the other hand, he emphatically asserted that at the time when the possession was delivered to him on 13-2-63 there was also no crops standing on the acquired land.
When the witnesses are contradicted by their previous statements in the manner aforesaid, then that part of the statements which has been put to the witness will be considered along with the evidence to assess the worth of the witness in determining his veracity.
The Trial Court as well as the High Court are in our view, justified in holding that crops of Sarson, gram and lusan were standing on the land acquired by the Military for extension of the Aerodrome.
It is said that some of the documents i.e. exhibit 8, 10 and 11 have not been put to the witnesses even though the Court relied upon them.
it is further contended that the stand taken by the prosecution was that 'the persons who we're permitted to cut the crops bad' not committed any offence.
On the 6th April, 1963 he has again written to the Garrison Engineer saying as follows:- "You have verbally asked me now to take the site after the crop is cut and the necessary marking of the alignment has been taken in hand but this handing over has not been shown on the site order book by the A.G.E. (B/R) despite my request.
The learned advocate for the respondent also tried to support the stand taken by the High Court.
But even so the offence with which the appellant is charged under Section 5(1)(c) does not necessarily involve ,An abetment with the person whom he had dishonestly allowed to- cut and take away the crop.
It will also justify the conclusion that they were there at any rate till the 20th March 1963 and according to the letter of the contractor (P.W. 8) on 23-3-63 they were completely cut.
Before we deal with the contentions urged on behalf of the Appellant it is necessary to have a clear picture of certain broad features of the case.
While in Appeal the High Court held that the Appellant could neither be tried nor convicted of the offence under 5(1)(a) as no sanction had been given in respect of it but upheld the conviction under Section 5(1)(d) for which sanction had been given.
The facts of the case in brief are that in view of the Chinese invasion Air Field at Sirsa required to be extended for which purpose the Ministry of Defence, Govt.
The letter exhibit P. 13 was also put to him and he was asked about the existence of the crops.
This letter shows two things (a) that complete site 4500 to 0 ft. has not yet been handed over "as it was presumed that the possession of the land could not be had so for" and (b) that as levels have not been given, the final excavation of the foundation cannot be done and all subsequent operations are therefore withheld.
It may also be stated that the Contractor had written to the, Garrison Engineer on 28-2-63 requesting him to hand over immediately the possession of the remaining portion of the land so that excavation work is not held up.
In respect of this allegation the First Information Report (exhibit P. 29) was issued on 14-1-64 in which the following statement is relevant:- "It is alleged that Major Som Nath accused who is a Garrison Engineer Sirsa Air Field subsequently sometime in the months of March and April 1963 permitted the removal of the standing crop valued at Rs. 11073-13 by Shri Moti Ram and Kewal Chand etc., after, accepting illegal gratification of Rs. 3000 from them.
There is also the further argument that some of the statements recorded by the Military authorities were not taken into account, as the High Court had thought that since the deponents denied the contents the officers who recorded the statement might have been called to show that they were properly recorded.
You are therefore requested to set out the work and get the same approved by the Engineerin- charge before starting the work".
By order and in the name of the President.
The appellant has denied that there was any standing crop on the land acquired on any date after 13-2-63.
This Appeal is by Special leave against the Judgment of the High Court of Punjab and Haryana confirming the conviction of the accused under Section 5(1)(c) of the Prevention of Corruption Act 1947 as also the sentence awarded by the Sessions Judge of one year's Rigorous Imprisonment and a fine of Rs. 2500, in default six months Rigorous Imprisonment.
A perusal of the sanction would show that the sanctioning authority had applied their mind to only one instance but the prosecution were seeking to make the sanction cover the offence of a habitual bribe taker which clearly implies that the sanctioning authorities must consider the number of instances when the accused took bribes and on what occasions as would justify a charge of his being a habitual bribe taker.
