One point was emphasised by Mr. Mehta that in the partnership deed which is not necessary to recite the terms, the petitioner was completely excluded in operating the bank accounts etc.
Thereafter, we the parties from the first to seventh part have, after purchasing at its cost price, all the debts and dues, goods, stock etc., together with goodwill of the dissolved partnership, started manufacturing and selling of Neon Signs Tubes in partnership from 9.9.61.
These facts were accepted that there was a partnership.
On or about 24th of October, 1960 another partnership deed being Exhibit-69 came to be executed among the six persons and the father of the appellant Girdharlal.
Therefore, the first question that had to be decided by the Appellate Court being the Court of Small Causes, Bombay and if a revision lay before the High court was whether there was any genuine partnership.
At the time of the institution of the suit the defendants Nos. 2 to 5 were admittedly the partners.
" (2) The work to be carried out by our partnership is of manufacturing and selling Neon Signs Tubes and of obtaining orders therefore.
The main controversy was whether the appellant had sublet the premises to defendant No. 2, Bharat Neon Signs or whether he being a partner of the said firm had permitted the said firm to use the premises in question.
Thakkar, J. of the Gujarat High Court, as the learned Judge then was, held that the mere fact that a tenant entered into a partnership and allowed the premises being used for the benefit of partnership does not constitute assignment or subletting in favour of the partnership firm entitling a landlord to recover possession.
The first question, therefore, is what is a partnership? That has to be found in section 4 of the Indian Partnership Act, 1932, it says "Partnership is the relation between persons who have agreed to share the profits of a business carried on by all or any of them acting for all" (Emphasis supplied) 10.  Section 6 of the said Act reiterates that in determining whether a group of persons is or is not a firm, or whether a person is or is not a partner in a firm, regard shall be had to the real relation between the parties, as shown by all relevant facts taken together.
He contended further that the suit premises was with him and the defendants Nos. 2 to 5 had not acquired any tenancy rights in the suit premises.
We are further of the opinion that the Court of Small Causes was right in the view it took and it was a possible view to take.
It may be mentioned that the partnership deed Exhibit-114 was executed by six persons and at that stage the appellant or his father were not partners in the firm.
The order and judgment of the Court of Small Causes Ahmedabad dated 18th of August, 1977 are restored.
The legislature, the learned Judge, felt, further empowered High Court in its revisional jurisdiction to pass such order with respect thereto as it thought fit.
The mere fact that another is allowed to use the premises while the lessee retains the legal possession is not enough to create a sub-lease.
There was nothing intrinsically wrong in law in constituting a partnership in the manner it was done.
There was evidence of suit of dissolution of the partnership where none of the partners took the plea that it was a false or a fictitious document.
Kapur, J. who delivered a separate judgment, however, observed that the power under section 35(1) of the said Act of interference by the High Court is not restricted to a proper trial according to law or error in regard to onus of proof or proper opportunity of being heard.
He dealt with the human problem under section 13(2) of Bombay Rent Act considering the relative hardships of the landlord and the tenant and to arrive at a just solution he was of the opinion that the court should have such wide field.
One point was emphasised by Mr. Mehta, learned counsel appearing for the respondents, that the original first partnership deed did not mention the appellant or his father as a partner.
This is also not inconsistent with treating the rent of the firm in the context of the total expenditure of the firm.
23.   In the case of Punamchandra Revashankar Joshi v. Ramjibhai Maganlal, Gujarat Law Reporter (1966), the Gujarat High Court after dealing with the Gujarat Amendment Act (XVIII) of 1965 observed that the Legislature has not intended to equate the ambit of the power with the one exercised in an appeal.
Clauses 6 and 7 of the said partnership deed recited inter alia as follows: "6.
The firm started as emphasised by Mr. Mehta on 4th of October, 1960 and it was only on the 24th of October, 1960 the second partnership deed was -executed.
There the learned judge relying on section 29(2) of the said Act held that the revisional power with which the High Court was vested under section 29(2) was not merely in the nature of jurisdictional control.
9.   Whether there was a partnership or not may in certain cases be a mixed question of law and fact, in the sense that whether the ingredients of partnership as embodied in the law of partnership were there in.a particular case or not must be judged in the light of the principles applicable to partnership.
But the question is from the three deeds itself which were examined in detail by the Court of Small Causes and which were re-examined by the High Court could it be said unequivocally that there was no partnership.
The Court of Small Causes considered these principles, evaluated the evidence and held that there was in fact and in law a partnership.
22.  The jurisdiction of High Court is to correct all errors of law going to the root of the decision which would, in such cases, include even perverse findings of facts, perverse in the sense that no reasonable person, acting judicially and properly instructed in the relevant law could arrive at such a finding on the evidence on the record.
" 14.   We are of the opinion that these were evidence that these terms were acted upon.
This view is now concluded by the decision of this Court in Madras Bangalore Transport Co. (West) v. Inder Singh and others, [1986] 3 S.C.C. 62 1986 Indlaw SC 748. 6.   The trial court in the instant appeal held that there was subletting.
It is evident from the sales-tax registration and other registration certificates and licences under the Shops and Establishments Act that the partnership was registered in the name of the appellant and the appellant was also indicated as a partner.
8.   This was set aside in appeal.
The appellant herein is entitled to the costs throughout.
The authority vested in the High Court under the amendment still remained only in the domain of the jurisdiction and power of revision and no further.
The Court of Small Causes came to the conclusion on an analysis of the evidence before it and the terms of the three partnership deeds referred to hereinbefore that there was a genuine partnership in law which was acted upon.
Clause 8 empowered the operating of the bank accounts by partners other than the appellant and his father.
The deeds gave the appellant the right to share the profits and made him agent for certain limited purposes of the firm and there was evidence that the partnership deeds were acted upon.
It was contended by Mr. Mehta that there was no agency; reading the partnership deeds as we have read that conclusion does not emanate from position appearing debiting the fixed amount payable to the appellant in the expenses account which also is not inconsistent with partnership.
The relevant portion of the partnership deed reads as follows: "To wit, the parties of the first to sixth parts out of us, deceased Khristi Girdharbhai Chimanlal and Shah Virchand Keshavji had jointly started the business of manufacturing and selling Neon Signs Tubes, in partnership in Ahmedabad from 4.10.1960, in the name and style of Bharat Neon Signs.
2 to 5 somewhere in 1961 to prepare neon signs and the defendants Nos. 2 to 5 were his partners and doing business in the suit premises.
The suit, inter alia, was filed by the landlord on the ground of subletting.
This last partnership deed was executed by the appellant and original defendants Nos. 3, 4 and 5. 5.  The main question in issue in this appeal as well as before the High Court in revision was whether there was a genuine partnership at the appellant was a partner.
Secondly, the facts have been properly appreciated and a decision arrived at taking all material and relevant facts in mind.
