" In that case the Court was considering the importance of rights under Section 5A vis--vis section 17(1) and section 17(1) (A) of the Act.
The State of Uttar Pradesh vide its office memorandum dated 25.10.2004 constituted a committee under the Chairmanship of the Hon'ble Minister of Revenue to suggest its recommendations for transfer of prisons situated in the congested areas of various districts.
In the facts of this case, such acquisition cannot be made by invoking emergency provisions of section 17.
The High Court in its decision dated 25.11.2009 refused to interfere with the selection of the site for the construction of the jail premises on the ground that it was not required to do so unless it found the selection of the site was wholly arbitrary.
"The right to file objections under Section 5A is a substantial right when a person's property is being threatened with acquisition and we cannot accept that that right can be taken away as if by a side-wind.
They further stated that the High Court had erred insofar as it upheld the factum of urgency in the absence of a categorical finding, an enquiry under Section 5A would have been detrimental to public interest.
vs B.E. Billimoria and Ors.
17.
Thereafter, over a period of 9 months, the State Government deposited 10% of compensation payable to the landowners, along with 10% of acquisition expenses and 70% of cost of acquisition was deposited, and the proposal for issuance of section 6 declaration was sent to the Director, Land Acquisition on 19th of June, 2009.
The land suggested for such acquisition by the Divisional Land Utility Committee was one admeasuring 25.89 hectares (63.93 acres) in village Morchha, tehsil Puwayan in the district of Shahjahanpur.
The valuable right of the appellants under Section 5A of the Act cannot flatten and steamrolled on the 'ipsi dixit' of the executive authority.
The object of this Bill is to provide that a Local Government shall not declare, section 6 of the Act, that any land is needed for a public purpose unless time has been allowed after the notification section 4 for persons interested in the land to put in objections and for such objections to be considered by the Local Government." (Gazette of India, Pt. V, dated 14th July, 1923) 30.
The history behind insertion of Section 5A, in the Act of 1894 seems to be a decision of the Division Bench of Calcutta High Court in J.E.D. Ezra vs The Secretary of State for India and ors reported in 7 C. W. N. 249.
From the various facts disclosed in the said affidavit it appears that the matter was initiated by the Government's letter dated 4th of June, 2008 for issuance of section 4(1) and section 17 notifications.
If so advised, Government can initiate acquisition proceeding by following the provision of Section 5A of the Act and in accordance with law.
Therefore, the concept of public purpose on this broad horizon must also be read into the provisions of emergency power section 17 with the consequential dispensation of right of hearing under Section 5A of the said Act.
, (2005) 7 SCC 627 2005 Indlaw SC 578, this Court held that the right which is conferred under Section 5A has to be read considering the provisions of Article 300-A of the Constitution and, so construed, the right under Section 5A should be interpreted as being akin to a Fundamental Right.
It was urged that it was clear from the counter of the respondent that the contemplation of a new prison was under consideration of the State Government for several years.
The concept, even though sought to be defined section 3(f) of the Act, is not capable of any precise definition.
The State Government explained that this was done in view of the pressing urgency in the matter of construction of the jails.
This Court finds a lot of substance in the contentions of the appellants.
In its meeting dated 10.10.2007 the committee recommended that a Detailed Project Report (DPR) be prepared by the Rajkiya Nirman Nigam, and that acquisition of lands for shifting of the prisons be done on a priority basis.
In the background of the aforesaid discussion, this Court proceeds to examine the scope of a person's right under Section 5A of the Act.
After due consideration of the forwarded proposal and documents, the State Government issued the section 4 notification, along with section 17 notification on 21st of August, 2008.
In that case, the properties of Ezra were sought to be acquired under the pre amended provision of the Act for expansion of the offices of the Bank of Bengal.
The possession of the appellants in respect of their land cannot be interfered with except in accordance with law.
Any attempt by the State to acquire land by promoting a public purpose to benefit a particular group of people or to serve any particular interest at the cost of the interest of a large section of people especially of the common people defeats the very concept of public purpose.
In connection with land acquisition proceeding whenever the provision of section 17 and its various sub-sections including section 17(4) is used in the name of taking urgent or emergent action and the right of hearing of the land holder under Section 5A is dispensed with, the Court is called upon to consider a few fundamentals in the exercise of such powers.
If public purpose can be satisfied by not rendering common man homeless and by exploring other avenues of acquisition, the Courts, before sanctioning an acquisition, must in exercise of its power of judicial review, focus its attention on the concept of social and economic justice.
In this context we reiterate the principle laid down by this Court in Authorised Officer, Thanjavur and another vs section Naganatha Ayyar and others reported in (1979) 3 SCC 466 1979 Indlaw SC 224, wherein this Court held: "It is true that Judges are constitutional invigilators and statutory interpreters; but they are also responsive and responsible to Part IV of the Constitution being one of the trinity of the nation's appointed instrumentalities in the transformation of the socio-economic order.
The question is whether in the admitted facts of this case, invoking the urgency clause section 17 (4) is justified.
But even in such cases i.e. cases of "urgency" or "unforeseen emergency", enquiry contemplated by Section 5-A cannot ipso facto be dispensed with which is clear from sub-s.
District Jail, Jaunpur; and 4.
In Para 17 of the report this Court held that Section 5A embodies a very just and wholesome principle of giving proper and reasonable opportunity to a land loser of persuading the authorities that his property should not be acquired.
Thus the time which elapsed between publication of section 4(1) and section 17 notifications, and section 6 declaration, in the local newspapers is of 11 months and 23 days, i.e. almost one year.
The appellants themselves are bhumidar with transferable rights and are residents of village Murchha, tehsil Puwayan in the district of Shahjahanpur, Uttar Pradesh.
(1) of section 17 deals with cases of "urgency", sub-s.
