(3) The maximum period for which any woman shall be entitled to maternity benefit shall be twelve weeks, that is to say, six weeks up to and including the day of her delivery and six weeks immediately following that day Provided that where a woman dies during this period, the maternity benefit shall be payable only for the days up to and including the day of her death.
Thus we are of opinion that computation of maternity benefit has to be made for all the days including Sundays and rest days which may be wageless holidays comprised in the Actual period of absence of the woman extending upto six weeks preceding and including the day of delivery as also for all the days falling within the six weeks immediately following the day of delivery thereby ensuring that the woman worker gets for the said period not only the amount equalling 100 per cent of the wages which she was previously earning in terms of section 3 (n) of the Act but also the benefit of the wages for all the Sundays and rest days falling within the aforesaid two periods which would ultimately be conducive to the interests of both the woman worker and her employer.
" 10. section 6 of the Act which deals with notice of claim for maternity benefit and payment thereof is to the following effect :- "6.
(2) No woman shall be entitled to maternity benefit unless she has actually worked in an establishment of the employer from whom she claims maternity benefit, for a period of not less than one hundred and sixty days in the twelve months immediately preceding the date of her expected delivery.
After thus finding out the average daily wage, the liability of the employer in respect of the maternity benefit has to be calculated in terms of section 5 of the Act for both ore-natal and post- natal period indicated above.
(3) shall be- (a) the period of one month immediately preceding the period of six weeks, before the date of her expected delivery; (b) any period during the said period of six weeks for which the pregnant woman does not avail of leave of absence under section 6".
This appeal by special leave which is directed against the judgment and order dated April 24, 1974 of the Letters Patent Bench of the High Court of Judicature at Madras reversing the judgment and order dated April 19, 1971 of the Single Judge of that Court passed in writ petition No. 3822 of 1969 presented article 226 of the Constitution raises a complex but an interesting question relating to the construction of the phrases "maternity benefit........ for the period of her actual absence immediately preceding and including the day of her delivery and for the six weeks immediately following that day" occurring in section 5(1) of the Maternity Benefits Act, 1961 (Act LIII of 1961) (hereinafter referred to as 'the Act') which in view of section 2(1) of the Act is the law applicable even to women workers employed in plantations.
the woman within forty-eight hours of production of such proof as may be prescribed that the woman has been delivered of a child.
(4) On receipt of the notice, the employer shall permit such woman to absent herself from the establishment until the expiry of six weeks after the day of her delivery.
Thereupon the establishment moved the High Court at Madras article 226 of the Constitution challenging the, decision of the Labour Court contending that the claim made by the respondent was untenable as normally a worker works only for six days in a week and the maternity benefit had to be computed only for 72 days.
The total wages thus worked out are to be divided by the number of days in the aforesaid three calendar months in order to arrive at the average daily wage.
(5) The amount of maternity benefit for the period preceding the date of her expected delivery shall be paid in advance by the employer to the woman on production of such proof as may be prescribed that the woman is pregnant, and the amount due for the subsequent period shall be paid by the employer to.
He has further urged that since section 5 (1) of the Act, the maternity benefit has to be computed with reference to the period of the workers' actual absence thereby meaning absence on days on which there was work excluding Sundays and the term 'week" in the context of 'sub-ss.
While absent from work on maternity leave in accordance with the provisions of article 3, the woman shall be entitled to receive cash and medical benefits.
(1) and (3) of section 5 of the Act, the term has to be taken to signify a cycle of seven days including Sundays.
It has next to be ascertained as to what were the cash wages paid or payable to her in terms of the definition contained in section 3 (n) of the Act for the days on which she worked during the period of three- calendar months immediately preceding the date of delivery, reckoned according to the British calendar month.
In Webster's New World Dictionary (1962 Edition), the meaning of the word "week" is given as "a period of seven days, especially one beginning with Sunday and ending with Saturday; the hours or days of work in a seven-day period.
i.e. for 84 days on the plea that a week consisted of seven days.
Although costs have to be paid by appellant to respondent No. 2 in terms of the Court's order dated October 30, 1975, yet in view of the fact that the said respondent has not chosen to appear at the hearing, of the case and Mr. K. N. Bhat has assisted the Court as amicus curiae, we direct the appellant to pay Rs. 1,000/- to Mr. Bhat as his fee.
In the result, the appeal fails and is hereby dismissed.
In view of what we have stated above, we cannot uphold the view of the law expressed by the Full Bench of Kerala High Court in Malayalam Plantations Ltd. Cochin v. Inspector of Plantations Mundakayam & Ors.
The language in which the aforesaid sub-s.s are couched also shows that the Legislature intended that computation of maternity benefit is to be made for the entire period of the woman worker's actual absence i.e. for all the days including Sundays which may be wageless holidays falling within that period and not only for intermittent periods of six days thereby excluding Sundays falling within that period for if it were not so, the Legislature instead of using the words "for the period of her actual absence immediately preceding and including the day of her delivery and for the six weeks immediately following that day" would have used the words "for the working days falling within the period of her actual absence immediately preceding and including the day of her delivery and the six weeks immediately following that day but excluding the wageless days".
Bearing in mind the above mentioned dictionary or popular meaning of the term "week", we think that in the context of sub-ss.
(1) and (3) of section 5 of the Act and whether the computation of the maternity benefit prescribed by the Act for the a foresaid two periods has to be made taking a "week" as signifying a cycle of seven days including a Sunday or a cycle of seven days minus a Sunday which is said to be a wageless day, As the Act does not contain any definition of the word "week", it has to be understood in its ordinary dictionary sense.
For fixing the average daily wage, it has therefore first to be ascertained whether the wages with were paid or were payable to the woman was for 'time work' or for 'piece work'.
The benefit has to be calculated for the aforesaid two periods on the basis of the average daily wage.
The first one i.e. prenatal or ante-natal period is limited to the period of woman's actual absence extending upto six weeks immediately preceding and including the day on which her delivery occurs and the second one which is postnatal compulsory period consists of six weeks immediately following the day of delivery.
(2) In the case of a woman who is pregnant, such notice shall state the date from which she will be absent from work, not being a date earlier than six weeks from the date of her expected delivery.
