Bulk drugs constituting category III are enumerated in the Second Schedule.
Otherwise, price fixation is generally a legislative activity.
Price fixation of a formulation is no doubt dependant on the price of the bulk drug, but it is not to await the result of a review application which in the end may turn out to be entirely without substance.
He was required to report this price to the Central Government within two weeks of the commencement of the order and was further prohibited from increasing the price without obtaining the approval of the Central Government.
The Union of India has preferred these appeals by Special leave of this Court against the judgment of the High Court.
57.  We notice that in all these matters, the High Court granted stay of implementation of the notifications fixing the maximum prices of bulk drugs and the retail prices of formulations.
Common sale price, we take it, is the price at which manufacturers whose retentions are fixed may sell the bulk drug despite the maximum sale price fixed under paragraph 3.
Though we see considerable force in the submission of Shri Diwan, we think that the circumstances of the instant cases do justify the exercise of our discretion to condone the delay.
Bulk drugs were, however, broadly divided into indigenously manufactured bulk drugs, imported bulk drugs and hulk drugs which were both manufactured indigenously as also imported.
" 23.  We may now turn our attention to the two Drugs (prices Control) Order of 1970 and 1979, both of which were made by the Central Government in exercise of its powers under section 3 of the Essential Commodities Act.
It was observed, "The control of prices may have effect either on maintaining or ,increasing supply of commodity or securing equitable distribution and availability at fair prices.
From the scheme of the Control Order and the context and content of paragraph 27, the Review in so far as it concerns the orders under paragraph 3, 12 and 13 appears to be in the nature of a legislative review of legislation, or more precisely a review of subordinate legislation by a subordinate legislating body at the instance of an aggrieved person.
In the present case, the enquiry contemplated by paragraph 3 of Drugs (prices Control) Order is to be made for the purposes of fixing the maximum price at which a bulk drug may be sold, with a view to regulating its equitable distribution and making it available at a fair price.
He urged that the manufacturers had invoked the remedy by way of review, but before the applications for review could be dealt with, they rushed to the court with the writ petitions out of which the appeal and the special leave petitions arise.
By way of illustration, we may straightaway mention a glaring instance of such high-pricing which was brought to our notice at the very commencement of the hearing. 'Barlagan Ketone', a bulk drug, was not treated as an essential bulk drug under the Drugs (prices Control) Order, 1970 and was not included in the schedule to that order.
It is to be noticed here that the payment to be made under section 3(3C) is not necessarily the same as the controlled price which may be fixed under section 3(2)(c) of the Act.
9.  We also wish to clear a misapprehension which appears to prevail in certain circles that price-fixation affects the manufacturer or producer primarily and therefore fairness requires that he be given an opportunity and that fair opportunity to the manufacturer or producer must be read into the procedure for price-fixation.
Here again the enquiry by the Government need not be restricted to 'an efficient manufacturer' or some manufacturers; nor need it be extended to all manufacturers.
It is then prescribed by clause (3)-- "No person shall sell a bulk drug at a price exceeding the price notified under sub-paragraph 1, plus local taxes, if any payable: provided that until the price of bulk drug is so notified, the price of such bulk drug shall be the price which prevailed immediately before the commencement of this order and the manufacture of such bulk drug at a price exceeding the price which prevailed as aforesaid.
A legislative measure does not concern itself with the facts of an individual case.
40.  Shri G. Ramaswamy, learned Additional Solicitor General on behalf of the Union of India, submitted that the fixation of maximum price under paragraph 3 of the Drugs (prices Control) Order was a legislative activity and, therefore, not subject to any principle of natural justice.
A Committee on Drugs and Pharmaceutical Industry, popularly known as the Hathi Committee was appointed by the Government of India to enquire into the various facets, of the Drug Industry in India.
The suggestion of the learned counsel was that the nature of the review under paragraph 27 was so apparently quasi-judicial and that the need to know the reasons for the order sought to be reviewed was so real if the manufacturer was effectively to exercise his right to seek the quasijudicial remedy of review, that by necessary implication it became obvious that the Order fixing the maximum price must be considered to be quasijudicial and not legislative in character.
It was argued with reference to various facts and figures that the price had been fixed in an arbitrary manner and the Government was not willing to disclose the basis on which the prices were fixed on the pretext that it may involve disclosure of matters of confidential nature.
But, where the legislature has not chosen to provide for any notice or hearing, no one can insist upon it and it will not be permissible to read natural justice into such legislative activity.
The price which the manufacturer of Barlagan Kotone, reported to the Central Government in 1971 was Rs.24,735.68 per Kg.
We are afraid none of these cases is of any assistance to the correspondence since the court was not concerned in any of those cases with a review of subordinate legislation by the subordinate legislating body.
" 17.  In New India Sugar Works v. State of Uttar Pradesh, [1981] 2 SCC 293 1981 Indlaw SC 217 there was an indication though it was not expressly so stated that the question of observing natural justice did not arise in cases of price fixation.
He observed: "In the ultimate analysis the mechanics of price fixation has necessarily to be left to the judgment of the Executive and unless it is patent that there is hostiled discrimination against a class of operators, the processual basis of price fixation has to be accepted in the generality of cases as valid." 16.  Referring to Shri Meenakshi Mills, the learned CJ.
Paragraph 13 empowers the Government to fix retail price of formulations specified in category III of third schedule.
In this group of cases we are faced with a different problem of alleged exploitation by big manufacturers of bulk drugs.
18.  In Welcom Hotel v. State of Andhra Pradesh, [1983] 4 SCC 575 1983 Indlaw SC 128 the observations of Chandrachud, CJ.
Manufacturers of any bulk drug are either one or a few in number and generally they may be presumed to be well informed persons, well able to take care of themselves, who have the assistance of Accountants, Advocates and experts to advise and espouse their cause.
Nor is there anything in the scheme or the provisions of the Drugs (prices Control) Order which otherwise contemplates the observance of any principle of natural justice or kindred rule, the non-observance of which would give rise to a cause of action to a suitor.
We think that it is the necessary duty of the Government to proceed to fix the retail price of a formulation as soon as the price of the parent bulk drug is fixed.
It was said, "The concern about drug prices, therefore, really arises from the fact that many of them are essential to the health and welfare of the community; and that there is no justification for the drug industry charging prices and having a production pattern which is based not upon the needs of the community but on aggressive marketing tactices and created demand.
In the case of bulk drugs, which were not included in the schedule, a manufacturer was entitled to continue to market the product at the same price at which he was marketing the products at the time of the commencement of the order.
The terms of the said order, that is on the undertaking given on behalf of the petitioners to maintain status quo on the prices prevailing prior to the issue of the impugned notification, the petitioners, through their counsel further given an undertaking to this court that, in case the petition is dismissed and the rule is discharged, the petitioners shall within eight weeks of the dismissal of the petition by this court, deposit in this court the difference in the prices of the formulations in question for being ...... equalization account.
The 'proforma' requires particulars of costdata, such as, raw materials, utilities, conversion cost, total cost of production, interest on borrowings, minimum bonus, packing, selling expenses, transport charges, transit insurance charges, total cost of sales, selling price, existing price or notional or declared prices, etc.
In the case of essential bulk drugs, paragraph 4 of the order enabled the Central Government to fix the maximum price at which such essential bulk drugs should be sold.
6.  Occasionally, the legislature directs the subordinate legislating body to make 'such enquiry as it thinks fit' before making the subordinate legislation.
And, we will not revaluate the considerations even if the prices are demonstrably injurious to some manufacturers or producers.
In fixing the prices, a price line has to be held in order to give preference or pre-dominant consideration to the interest of the consumer or the general public over that of the producers in respect of essential commodities.
The Hathi Committee considered that units (other than MRTP units) having only turnover of less than Rs.1 crore may be exempted from price control.
He further submitted that paragraph 27 of the Central Order gave a remedy to the manufacturers to seek a review of the order fixing the maximum price under paragraph 3.
But we do not totally deny ourselves the jurisdiction to enquire into the question, in appropriate proceedings, whether relevant considerations have gone in and irrelevant considerations kept out of the determination of the price.
The controlled price has to retain this equilibrium in the supply and demand of the commodity.
at which the manufacturer was previously selling the drug and at which he continues to market the drug to this day because of the quashing of the order fixing the price by the High Court, is so unconsciously high even compared with the price claimed by himself that it appears to justify the charge that some manufacturers do indulge in 'profiteering'.
If the prices of yarn or cloth were fixed in such a way to enable the manufacturer or producer recover his cost of production and secure a reasonable margin of profit, no aspect of infringement of any fundamental right could be said to arise.
If a review application is allowed and the price of the bulk drug is raised and if in the meanwhile, the formulation had been ordered to be sold at a low price, it may result in considerable loss to the manufacturer.
Any decision taken by the Government cannot be confined to the individual manufacturer seeking review but must necessarily affect all manufacturers of the bulk drug as well as the consumer public.
36.  Paragraph 16 provides that where any manufacturer, importer or distributor of any bulk drug or formulation fails to furnish information as required under the order within the time specified therein, the Government may, on the basis of such information as may be available with it, by order, fix a price in respect of such bulk drug or formulation as the case may be.
The Order made under section 3(2c), which is not in respect of a single transaction, nor directed to particular individual is clearly a legislative act, while an Order made under section 3(3C) which is in respect of a particular transaction of compulsory sale from a specific individual is a non-legislative act.
The object of the rule, the reach of its application, the rights and obligations arising out of it, its intended effect on past, present and future events, its form, the manner of its promulgation are some factors which may help in drawing the line between legislative and non-legislative acts.
44.  It is primarily from the consumer public's point of view that the Government is expected to make its enquiry.
The review provided by paragraph 27 of the order is akin to a post decisional hearing which is sometimes afforded after the making of some administrative orders, but not truly so.
In other words, the review if it is fruitful must result in fresh subordinate legislative activity.
The grievance of the manufacturers in the writ petitions that they were not furnished the details of the basis of the price fixation was not correct since full information was furnished at the time of the hearing of the review applications when the matter underwent thorough and detailed discussion between the parties and the Government as well as the Bureau of Industrial Costs and Prices.
However, we think that it is necessary to give a direction to the Government to dispose of the review applications after giving a notice of hearing to the manufacturer.
The Essential Commodities Act is a legislation towards that end.
Pricefixation may occasionally assume an administrative or quasi-judicial character when it relates to acquisition or requisition of goods or property from individuals and it becomes necessary to fix the price separately in relation to such individuals.
" "'pre-tax return' means profits before payment of incometax and sur-tax and includes such other expenses as do not form part of the cost of formulations.
In most cases, they are the sale manufacturers of the bulk drug and even if they are not the sole manufacturers, they belong to the very select few who manufacture the bulk drug.
These notifications were questioned on several grounds by the manufacturers and they have been quashed by the Delhi High Court on the ground of failure to observe the principles of natural justice.
It is a hearing which follows a subordinate legislative activity intended to provide an opportunity to affected persons such as the manufacturers, the industry and the consumer public to bring to the notice of the subordinate legislating body the difficulties or problems experienced or likely to be experienced by them consequent on the price fixation, whereupon the Government may make appropriate orders.
