Sub-s.
(3) enables the registered proprietor to show special circumstances for the non use of the trade mark due to which circumstances in the trade, he could not use the trade mark for the above period and not with any intention to abandon the use of trade mark or not to use the trade mark in relation to good to which the application for rectification relates.
(1) of Section 48.
By agreement dated December 29, 1962, Sen Raleigh and the respondents agreed that Sen Raleigh was registered user for further period up to 1976.
Registered users.
The expression, therefore, should not be restricted to user by the proprietor himself or any registered user but should also take into account bona fide authorized user.
It requires to be prevented and prohibited.
Leave granted.
The power section 46 is discretionary.
Suffice it to hold that subs.
In view of the appellant's conduct, it was taking advantage of its own wrong.
12.
Shri Raju Ramchandran, learned senior counsel for the appellant, raised three-fold contentions.
13.
and shall be used by a person the proprietor.
On appeal, the Division Bench in Appeal No.13/91 confirmed the same holding that on and from October 25, 1980, the respondent had allowed and permitted the appellant to manufacture bicycles etc.
(3) would not apply.
17.
15.
14.
11.
10.
9.
" 8.
7.
6.
5.
4.
3.
2.
1.
1985 Indlaw SC 464 and they need no reiteration.
Removal from register and imposition of limitations on ground of non-use.
We have heard learned counsel on both sides.
In K.R Beri and Co. vs The Metal Godds Mfg.
From him, the appellant came to succeed by statutory operation.
The Court while exercising its discretion section 46 should look into not only commercial interest of the parties but also public interest.
for the purpose of section 46 or for any other purpose for which such use is material under this Act or any other law.
We have given anxious consideration to the reasoning therein.
(3) envisages that "an application shall not be entitled to rely for the purpose of clause (b) of sub-s.
We are also not persuaded to take a different view from that of the High Court.
It is seen that preceding the nationalization of the Cycle manufacturing industry under the IDR Act, the respondent had a collaboration agreement with Sen Raliegh who was a registered user under Section 48.
according its specifications and to pass off the goods under their trade marks.
The appellant was using the same as an agent.
An agreement dated December 20, 1976 was entered into between the appellant, as registered user and the respondent in respect of 12 trade marks for a period of 5 years.
such a findings the High Court was wrong in law in refusing to rectify the trade mark and striking it off the register.
The discretion, therefore, was not to be extended in favour of the appellant.
The Trade and Merchandise Marks Act, 1958 (43 of 1958) (for short, the 'Act) which came into force with effect from October 3, 1958 has repealed the Predecessor Act and now the Act is in operation.
It is a question of fact in every case.
The appeal is accordingly dismissed but, in the circumstances, without costs.
(2) of section 48 surplus age or otios, which is impermissible by statutory construction.
Suffice it to state that the appellant, as a fact, had used the trade mark of the respondent in passing off the bicycles manufactured by it.
The construction put up by the High Court renders sub-s.
The High Court therefore was wrong in holding that 5 years' period had not lapsed.
Special circumstances as a defense were available to the respondent for non-user; even after 1979, the supply-technical know-how by the respondent was not totally absent.
The respondents admittedly did not use the same.
Co Pvt Limited and Anr [AIR 1980 Delhi 299 1980 Indlaw DEL 180], the Division Bench construed section 48(2) and held that an unregistered user of the trade mark even With the consent of the proprietor cannot be construed to be a registered user section 48(1) and such construction renders sub-s.
Ordinarily, however, the mark will be expunged (taken off) when the factual circumstances necessary for the removal are established unless it is shown that the case comes within the exceptions provided in the sub-section (3).
The special circumstance is that the appellant filed an application for registration section 48(1) and continued it till it was abandoned.
There is no specific bar for an unregistered lincesee to use registered trade mark so long as there is a connection in the course of trade between the licenser and the lincesee.
After termination of the collaboration and user agreement between the appellant and the respondents it was likely to cause confusion and deception amongst the trade and public.
Shri Ashok Desai, learned senior counsel for respondents, resisted the contentions.
Thus, this appeal by special leave.
Equally, the applicant for rectification also prima facie shows non-user for the relevant period.
It must, therefore, be held that though the deemed presumption under sub-s.
Though the collaboration and registered user agreements stood expired from October 31, 1981, no agreement came to be executes nor continued to use the specifications on technical know-how.
On the other hand, it is for the respondent to prove the same.
In these circumstances, we are of the view that the High Court has properly exercised its discretion and refused to rectify and strike off the trade mark, from the register of trade marks of the Registrar.
He further contended that the special circumstances enumerated in sub-s.
The harmonious construction should be put up in such a way that section 48(2) and section 466 by of the Act could be permitted to have their- full play in their operational structure.
If the non-user was, in fact, due to some other circumstances and would have occured whether the circumstances had followed or not, subs.
A continuous period of 5 years or longer had passed and the trade mark had not been bona fide used by the respondent.
In the absence of .
On March 24, 1982, the appellant made an application under Sections 32, 46 and 56 of the Act against the respondents in the High Court of Calcutta in Suit No.266/92 pleading, inter alia, that the respondents had failed to provide technical assistance by passing the technical know- how to Sen Raleigh after November 1, 1976.
It is true that section 43(1) either the registered proprietor or a permitted person is required to register as permitted user.
Simultaneously, an application for registration of three trade marks An their favour was filed by the appellant on March 25, 1982.
The appellant had not taken any steps to withdraw registered user applications and as such should not be permitted to take such a contradictory stand of applying for rectification at the same time.
The learned single Judge dismissed the application by his judgment dated September 13, 1990 holding, inter alia, that any proprietor mentioned in section 46(1)(b) of the Act extends to bona fide user other than registered users.
The conduct of the respondents was not violative of section 32(b) and (c).
The respondents entered into an agreement with Sudhir Kumar Sen on November 3, 1948 to render technical know-how to the Indian Company to be formed which would manufacture bicycles and market them under Raleigh's Indian Trade marks.
On strict interpretation, the view of the Division Bench may be correct but it is not correct to hold that by a bona fide user of an unregistered user when connection between the proprietor of the trade mark and the permitted user in relation to passing off the goods under the trade mark are proved, it does not render sub-section (2) of section 48 surplus age or otios.
The period of 5 years should be computed from that date of expiry of registered user.
The question is: whether the trade connection exists to dispel the charge of trafficking in the trade mark? This question was considered by this Court in American Home Products Corporation vs Mac Laboratories Pvt. Ltd and Anr.
The burden is on tile respondents to prove that non-user was due to special circumstance of the trade and not due to some other cause which would have operated whether special circumstances had arisen or not Since the respondents were not using the trade mark since April 20, 1954, the plea of special circumstances is not available to the respondents.
The benefit of section 46 would be available during the period for which the agreement registered and user continued in furtherance thereof.
The Central Government is empowered to prevent trafficking in trade mark.
The Division Bench, therefore, was wrong in its conclusion that the appellant has failed to establish it.
On March 5, 1982, the respondent wrote a letter to the appellant that in the absence of a new agreement they were instructing their advocate to prevent the appellant by restraint proceedings to use the trade mark effective from April 1, 1982.
- (1)) Subject to the provisions of section 47, a registered trade mark may be taken off the register in respect of any of the goods in respect of which it is registered on application made in the prescribed manner to a High Court or to the Registrar by any person aggrieved on the ground either - (a) xxx xxx xxx xxx (b) that up to a date of one month before the date of the application, a continuous period of five years or longer had elapsed during which the trade mark was registered and during which there was no bona fide use thereof in relation to those goods by any proprietor thereof for the time being.
It is true that the burden flies on the registered proprietor of the trade mark to establish the exceptions provided under section 46(3).
The appellant must be presumed by course of conduct that he is a bona fide user for the purpose of section 46(1)(b).
