Such findings were firstly, that the defendants had failed to prove that the suit properties were sold in favour of defendant-l subsequent to the giving of security of those properties in his favour under the mortgage deeds; secondly, that the defendants had failed to prove the past tenancy of the suit properties on its view that what was pleaded by them in the written statements was tenancy prior to the date of filing of the suit; and thirdly, that the mortgages of the suit properties were mortgages by 'conditional sale.
The issue relating to their claim that they were tenants of the said properties - the agricultural lands, as urged therein, had to be referred by the Civil Court to the Mamlatdar under section 85-A of the Bombay Tenancy and Agricultural Lands Act, 1948 - "the BT & AL Act" for recording his finding thereon and the suit had to be stayed pending receipt of the finding thereon so that the suit may be finally disposed of on the basis of such finding.
It was agreed under the terms of the mortgage deed that no interest need be paid by the respondent since the premises, the possession of which was given to the tenant pursuant to the mortgage was to be enjoyed in lieu of interest payable on the mortgage.
It is the Judgment and Order of the learned single Judge of the High Court by which he allowed the Second Appeal and remanded the suit, which is appealed against in this Civil Appeal of the plaintiff as is stated at the outset.
If that be the position, there can be no bar for the defendants to claim the right to continue in possession of the suit properties as tenants under the BT & AL Act even if the plaintiff could obtain a decree for redemption of the suit properties, which relief was sought in the suit.
The defence of the appellants (defendants) in substance was that the agreement on which reliance was placed by the respondents in their suit was a sham agreement and that the appellants in reality were the tenants of the shop and the relationship between the respondents and appellants was that of the landlord and tenant.
Further, section 85 of the BT & AL Act to which also we have already adverted, in unequivocal terms says that in deciding any issue which is required to be decided by the Mamlatdar under the BT & AL Act no Civil Court has jurisdiction to decide it.
However, the defendants questioned the judgments and decrees of the trial court and the appellate court by filing a second appeal against the same in the High Court of Gujarat.
In the present case as we have pointed out earlier, when no surrender of possession of the suit properties had taken place before the coming into existence of mortgages in favour of the lessor - mortgagor, when no redelivery of possession had been given pursuant to the mortgage to the-tenant, the decision under consideration can be of no assistance to the appellant.
to consider the true effect of sub-section (1) of section 28 of the Rents Control Act to find whether it means that a defendant if raises a claim or question as to the existence of relationship of landlord and tenant between him and plaintiff the jurisdiction of the Civil Court is ousted even though the plaintiff pleaded that there is only exclusive jurisdiction to decide the case with the Court of Small Causes, Bombay.
The decision of this Court in Shah Mathuradas case 1976 Indlaw SC 400 (supra) and G. Appalaswamy case 1984 Indlaw SC 314 (supra) sought to be relied upon by learned counsel for the appellant - plaintiff in support of his arguments that there was a merger of the leasehold right of the tenant in the suit properties when he took mortgages of those properties from the landlord as would deny him the right to continue in possession of those properties as a tenant, instead of supporting his argument would go against it, as we shall presently point out.
Specific case pleaded by the plaintiff in the plaint as regards possession of the suit properties held by tenants was that their possession which was with the plaintiff was given to defendant-l on the execution of the deeds of mortgage by conditional sale in his favour.
The argument which was strenuously advanced on behalf of the appellant - plaintiff was that in a suit for redemption filed by the mortgagor in a Civil Court in respect of property notwithstanding the plea of the defendants' claim that they were tenants of that property under the BT & AL Act and under the provisions of that Act the issue of tenancy had to be referred by the Civil Court to the Mamlatdar for recording a finding thereon and the Civil Court can proceed to dispose 0 the suit only on the basis of the finding received from the Mamlatdar, the Civil Court itself can record its finding on the issue of tenancy and if the finding to be recorded had to go against the claim of tenancy, it would be permissible for the Civil Court to grant the decree for redemption sought by the plaintiff in the said suit.
In this Act, unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or context, (18) 'tenant' means a person who holds land on lease and include - (a) A person who is deemed to be tenant trader section 4; (b) A person who is a protected tenant; and (c) A person who is a permanent tenant; and the word 'landlord' shall be construed accordingly." "4.
Defendant-2, brother of defendantI had been joined in that suit on the allegation that the latter was put in possession of mortgage properties by the former subsequent to the coming into existence of the mortgages.
Secondly, this Court held that the appellant was not entitled to retain after redemption possession of the mortgage-property by reason of his previous right to be in its possession as a tenant.
The further plea taken in the written statement by the appellants was that as the question involved in the suit related to the possession of premises as between a landlord and his tenant, the Court of Small Causes, Bombay, alone had jurisdiction to try the suit.
Even if the sale of said properties in favour of defendant-l, it was asserted therein, was not proved, they continued to be tenants of the said properties on the date of suit as they were tenants even before the date of coming into existence of the mortgages.
Furthermore, section 85A, as it stood prior to its amendment by Gujarat Amendment Act No.5 in the year 1973 and as stands thereafter, requires that if any suit instituted in Civil Court involves the question of tenancy of 'present' or 'past', as the case may be, the same being required to be decided or dealt with by an authority competent under the BT & AL Act, the Civil Court has to stay the suit and refer the issue to such competent authority for determination and after receiving the decision thereon to dispose of the suit in accordance with such decision.
If, on the other hand, it is found that having regard to the nature of the suit it is not cognizable by the class of court to which the court belongs, the plaintiff's suit will have to be dismissed in its entirety.
However, the arguments addressed before us on behalf of the plaintiff- appellant in support of the appeal by learned Senior Counsel Mr. S.K. Dholakia were these: That defendant-l - respondent-l although was in possession of the suit properties - agricultural lands at the time of execution of the deeds of mortgage by conditional sale in his favour because of the coming into existence of such mortgages there occurred merger of lease-hold rights of defendant-l in suit properties when he obtained those properties as mortgage security under the said mortgages and as a consequence he became a mortgagee in possession of those properties.
This civil appeal by special leave is directed against the Judgment and Decree dated 29th November, 1977 rendered by a single Judge of the Gujarat High Court in Second Appeal No. 348 of 1973, which arose out of Regular Civil Suit No. 921 of 1966 filed in the Court of Joint Civil Judge, Baroda (Civil Court) by the appellant herein as plaintiff against respondents 1 and 2 herein - defendants 1 and 2 for redemption of suit properties which were mortgaged as security for certain monies borrowed by the plaintiff from defendant-l under two deeds of mortgage executed in the year 1961.
The Civil Court notwithstanding the defence of the defendants taken in their written statements that the suit had to be stayed for obtaining the finding on their claim of tenancy under the BT & AL Act, framed the issues in the suit on the basis of the pleadings of the parties and after trial recorded its findings thereon.
Dealing with the question of non-merger this Court approved the ratio of the decision in Shah Mathuradas 1976 Indlaw SC 400 (supra) thus: "In our view there can be no merger of a lease and a mortgage, even where the two transactions are in respect of the same property.
But, if the provisions of the BT & AL Act which bear on the question of matters to be decided by the Mamlatdar are seen, they give no room for one even to think that those matters could be decided by a Civil Court when a question is raised in that behalf even by a defendant in a suit.
If, therefore, the plaintiff in his plaint does not admit a relation which would attract any of the provisions of the Act on which the exclusive jurisdiction given under S.28 depends, we do not think that the defendant by his plea can force the plaintiff to go to a forum where on his averments he cannot go.
It proceeds on the basis that exclusive jurisdiction is conferred on certain courts to decide all questions or claims under the Act as to parties, between whom there is or was a relationship of landlord and tenant.
By referring to the material portion of section 28 of the Rents Control Act the argument made on behalf of the appellants was found by this Court to be untenable by stating thus: "We do not think that the section says or intends to say that the plea of the defendant will determine or change the forum.
Then there will be no question of returning the plaint for presentation to the proper court, for the plaint, as framed, would not justify the other kind of court to grant him the relief.
The appeal in this Court had arisen out of the finding recorded on that issue and in dealing with that matter this Court had.
Thus according to the plaint, the appellants who .were merely licensees, had no right to enter into the shop after the expiry of the period of licence envisaged in the agreement.
Pursuant to the said agreement, the respondent had allowed the appellants, their family members, servants and agents to visit the shop only for the purpose of looking after the business of commission agency.
Support was sought for the argument from the decision of this Court in Topandas case 1963 Indlaw SC 379 (supra).
Hence, the lease-hold of a tenant (lessee) in a property does not merge in mortgage security of that property, even if it is given .to him by the landlord (lessor) on a mortgage by conditional sale as would debar the tenant from desisting the suit of the landlord mortgagor for recovery of possession of such property by obtaining decree for redemption of the mortgage.
