It was suggested that an agreement may be signed between them for the period from 1st September, 1998 until the matter was finally decided by the appellant under the tender, on the existing terms and conditions with the charter hire being provisionally paid on ad hoc basis at 90% of the rate which was prevailing under the existing Charter Party.
As such, all said and done, Oil Co-ordination Committee s proposal was not accepted.
The writ petition was disposed of vide order dated 20th August, 1999.
Charterers to give owners 15 days notice to probable port of re-delivery.
We feel that it would be proper and expedient to constitute a fresh Arbitral Tribunal.
Having failed to re- deliver the vessel in terms of Cl.
Under certain circumstances, offerree s silence, coupled with his conduct, which takes the form of a positive act, may constitute an acceptance an agreement sub silentio.
23.
22.
Appeal dismissed.
Respondent s consent was asked for.
Therefore, we refrain from expressing any opinion on the scope and ambit of the arbitration clause though, prime facie, it appears to be quite widely worded.
[Emphasis supplied] 10.
It seems that being aggrieved of the decision of the IOC to invite revised price bids after opening of the sealed tenders, one of the bidders filed a writ petition in the Bombay High Court, questioning the said decision.
1. Leave granted.
Nevertheless, some suggestions to resolve the controversy were given.
However, the Oil Coordination Committee, by their fax message dated 26th August, 1998, declined the request of the Oil Companies, including the appellant, for further extension of Charter Party beyond 31st August, 1998.
The appellant M/s. Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited is a Government of India Undertaking, under the administrative control of the Ministry of Petroleum & Natural Gas and is engaged in refining, distributing and selling of petroleum products all over the country.
29.
28.
27.
26.
25.
24.
21.
20.
19.
17.
Vs.
16.
14.
12.
11.
9.
8.
7.
6.
5.
4.
3.
2.
Kindly confirm in order to draw up a suitable agreement accordingly".
In order to appreciate the issue, requiring determination, a few relevant facts may be stated.
However, the respondent did not convey their acceptance of the charter hire rates for two vessels, viz. JAG PRAJA and JAG PRAYOG .
On 12th October, 1998, the respondent informed the IOC that if all its nine vessels, mentioned in the letter, are used at a fair and reasonable rate for one year, from 1st September, 1998 to 31st August, 1999 for which the tender had been floated, they were agreeable to apply the new agreed rates for use of the said nine vessels from 1st July, 1998.
Thereafter, for almost two months, there was no communication between the parties.
Some other objections, not relevant at this stage, were also indicated.
The learned Judge also felt that the Tribunal had erred in totally excluding from its consideration cls.
Mr. Sudhir Chandra, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant has assailed the impugned order on the sole ground that the Charter Party dated 6th May, 1997 having come to an end by efflux of time on 31st August, 1998, the arbitration clause contained in it also perished and, therefore, in the absence of a fresh arbitration agreement, claim of the respondent relating to the period 1st September, 1998 to 31st August, 1999 could not be referred to arbitration by invoking arbitration clause in Charter Party dated 6th May, 1997.
The State of Gujarat & Anr 1974 Indlaw SC 253. .
15.
Therefore, the terms of a contract between the parties can be proved not only by their words but also by their conduct.
Indubitably, there was no further exchange of correspondence between the parties during the year.
This appeal by Special Leave arises out of a judgment and order dated 1st March, 2005 rendered by the High Court of Judicature at Bombay, whereby the learned Single Judge has set aside the order passed by the Arbitral Tribunal, holding that they did not have jurisdiction to entertain and try the claim and counter claim made by the parties.
Resultantly, the appeal being devoid of any merit is liable to be dismissed, which we do, leaving the parties to bear their own costs.
As noted hereinabove, there was no response by the appellant to respondent s letter dated 4th January, 1999 though it appears that vide their letter of even date, the appellant did suggest to the respondent that as a token of formal agreement the said letter may be jointly signed by the charterers and the vessel owners.
The appellant intervened in the said matter.
Accordingly, on 29th June, 1998 an addendum was signed between the parties whereby the validity period of Charter Party was extended for one month with an option for two further extensions for a period of 15 days each.
It was also submitted that the view taken by the High Court being a plausible view, interference in exercise of extra-ordinary jurisdiction article 136 of the Constitution is unwarranted.
Notwithstanding the provisions of cl.
The learned Tribunal found issue No.2 in the negative and issue No.5 in the affirmative.
The name of the arbitrator was also communicated to the appellant.
The terms and conditions; exceptions and exemptions contained in the Charter Party dated 6th May, 1997 remained unaltered.
The respondent agreed to the said proposal.
Final Voyage Should the vessel be on her voyage towards the port of redelivery at the time of payment of hire is due, payment of hire shall be made for such length of time as Owners and Charterers may agree upon as being estimated time necessary to complete the voyage, less any disbursements made or expected to be made or expenses incurred or expected to be incurred by Charterers for owners account and less the estimated amount of bunker fuel remaining at the termination of the voyage and when the vessel is redelivered any overpayment shall be refunded by the owners or underpayment paid by Charterers.
23 and 4.1 of the charter party dated 6th May, 1997, whereunder the charter party was to come to an end on re-delivery of the vessel.
It appears that the respondent wrote various letters to the appellant for upward revision of the rate in respect of these two vessels but seemingly their request was ultimately turned down on 2nd November, 2000, on receipt of which, the respondent slammed a legal notice dated 6th November, 2000, on the appellant, inter alia, requesting them to revise the rates on the basis of mutual discussions and settle the accounts.
22.09.1996 to 30.06.1998.
Correctness of this order of the High Court is questioned in this appeal.
These are in the following terms: "4.
It was only on 31st December, 1998 when the IOC issued a fax to the respondent, enclosing draft letter regarding charter party agreement to be signed between the charterers and owners (with minor modification, if necessary), requesting the respondent to sign as per proposal by the 4th January, 1999, on which date the respondent expressed its disinclination, stating in reply fax that as per usual practice, pending finalization of new charter, the existing terms and conditions of the charter party continue to apply.
It goes without saying that the learned Tribunal shall deal with the matter uninfluenced by any observations in this order on the respective stands of the parties.
The respondent was asked to convey their acceptance to the said suggestion.
Admittedly, no such agreement was signed between the parties.
It is not in dispute that the vessel JAG PRAJA , with which we are concerned, continued to be chartered by the appellant till 31st August, 1999.
However, on 31st October, 1998, the appellant faxed IOC s message informing them of the extension of the existing coastal tanker fleet for the month of October, 1998 at reduced rates, viz. 80% of the Charter Party rates prevailing till 30th August, 1998.
Admittedly, the vessels continued to be chartered by the appellant beyond the date of this letter.
In our view, the principle of sub silentio is clearly attracted in the present case.
On the basis of the pleadings of the parties, the Arbitral Tribunal framed as many as eight issues.
In view of the foregoing discussion, we do not find any infirmity in the view taken by the High Court that Charter Party dated 6th May, 1997 had not come to an end by efflux of time and it got extended by the conduct of the parties, warranting interference.
The conduct of the parties, as evidenced in the said correspondence and, in particular appellant s silence on respondent s letters dated 5th November, 1998 and 4th January, 1999, coupled with the fact that they continued to use the vessel, manifestly goes to show that except for the charter rate, there was no other dispute between the parties.
It appears that pending finalization of a new charter party for the period commencing 1st September, 1998, certain meetings took place between the Oil Companies and the Ship Owners, including the respondent herein.
Accordingly, we constitute an Arbitral Tribunal consisting of Justice M. Jagannadha Rao (Presiding Arbitrator), Justice D.P. Wadhwa and Justice S.N. Variava, former Judges of this Court to adjudicate upon the claim/counter claim by the parties, subject to their consent and such terms and conditions as they may deem fit and proper.
The respondent challenged the said Award before the High Court.
It seems that pursuant to the said notice and some subsequent correspondence exchanged between the parties, an Arbitral Tribunal was constituted.
It was clearly stated that since the tender was not finalized, the owners will be guided by the existing terms and conditions.
Having failed to receive any reply to the said notice, by another legal notice dated 1st December, 2000, the respondent called upon the appellant to pay balance amount of Rs.43,947,517/- to them as charter hire in respect of vessel JAG PRAJA for the period from 1st September, 1998 to 31st August, 1999 within 15 days from date of receipt of the said notice or treat it as an arbitration notice.
In response, the respondent, while expressing their disappointment with the rate but purportedly, in view of their long business relations with the appellant conveyed their acceptance of the proposed rate in respect of each of the vessels named in separate letters, all dated 1st May, 2000, with the expectation that their outstanding balance of the hire shall be paid to them at the earliest.
The parties are ad idem that the Charter Party dated 6th May, 1997 was extended till 31st August, 1998.
By the impugned order, the learned Single Judge has set aside the said Award, inter alia, holding that Arbitral Tribunal has the jurisdiction to adjudicate the disputes between the parties as the vessel continued to be hired by the appellant for the period subsequent to 31st August, 1998 on the same terms and conditions, as were contained in the charter party dated 6th May, 1997, only subject to the revision or modification of the rate of hire to be determined by the Oil Co-ordination Committee.
