payable to her for the days on which she has worked during the period of three calendar months immediately preceding the date from which she absents herself on account of maternity, or one rupee a day, whichever is higher.
Mr. Pai has referred us to the Full Bench decision of the Kerala High Court in Malayalam Plantations Ltd. Cochin v. Inspector of Plantation Mundakayam & Ors., (1975) Lab.
Sub-s.
1974 Indlaw KER 91 (supra).
" In Stroud's Judicial Dictionary (Third Edition), it is stated that (1) "though a week usually means any consecutive seven days, it will sometimes be interpreted to mean the ordinary notion of a week reckoning from Sunday to Sunday and (2) probably, a week usually means seven clear days.
According to the Explanation appended to section 5(1) of the Act, the average daily wage has to be computed taking into consideration the average of the woman's wager,.
Appeal dismissed
Employment of, or work by, woman prohibited during certain period.- (1) No employer shall knowingly employ a woman in any establishment during the six weeks immediately following the day of her delivery or her mis- carriage.
The interpretation placed by us on the phraseology of sub- sections (1) and (3) of section 5 of the Act appears to us to be in conformity not only with the legislative intendment but also with Paragraphs 1 and 2 of article 4 of Convention No. 103 concerning Maternity Protection Convention (Revised), 1952 adopted by the General Conference of the International Labour Organisation which are extracted below for facility of reference:- "article 4 : 1.
As against this, the respondent pleaded that the computation had to be made not with reference to the Actual number of working days but with reference to total number of days covered by twelve weeks i.e. 84 days.
The provisions of section 5 of the Act quoted above make it clear that a woman worker who expects a child is entitled to maternity benefit for a maximum period of twelve weeks which is split up into two periods viz. prenatal and post-natal.
16.
" 15.
section 2(1) of the Act makes the Act applicable to every establishment being a factory, mine or plantation (including any such establishment belonging to Government and to every establishment wherein persons are employed for the exhibition of equastrain acrobatic and other performance.
19.
The above definition, it would be noted, does not restrict the meaning of the term "wages" to contractual wages but gives the term a composite meaning covering all remunerations in the nature of cash allowances, incentive bonus and the money value of the concessional supply of foodgrains and other articles.
20.
" 18.
2.
17.
14.
13.
12.
11.
8.
7.
5.
4.
3.
2.
1.
strictly the time between midnight on Saturday and the same hour on the next succeeding Saturday, but the term is also applied to any period of seven successive days.
It seems to emphasize, in our judgment, the continuous running of time and recurrence of the cycle of seven days.
While calculating the aforesaid amount of maternity benefit, the establishment admittedly excluded twelve Sundays being wageless holidays, which fell during the period of the respondent's actual absence immediately preceding and including the day of her delivery and the six weeks immediately following that day.
The rates of cash benefit shall be fixed by national laws or regulations so as to ensure benefit sufficient for the full and healthy maintenance of herself and her child in according with a suitable standard of living.
(3) Any woman who has not given the notice when she was pregnant may give such notice as soon as possible after the delivery.
Again the word "period" occurring in section 5(1) of the Act is a strong word.
We have heard Mr. Pai, learned counsel for the appellant as also Mr. Bhatt, who in view of the default in appearance of respondent No. 2 and the importance of the point involved in the case was appointed as amicus cruaie.
As her demand did not evoke a favourable response, the respondent applied to the Labour Court, Coimbatore, under section 33C(2) of the Industrial Disputes Act for redress of her grievance.
In support of his contention.
(4) any which is of an arduous nature or which involves long hours of standing, or which in any way is likely to interfere with her pregnancy or the normal development of the foetus, or is likely to cause her miscarriage or otherwise to adversely affect her health.
We place on record our deep appreciation of the valuable assistance rendered to us by both of them.
It has also to be borne in mind in this connection that in interpreting provisions of beneficial pieces of legislation like the one in hand which is intended to achieve the object of doing social justice to women workers employed in the plantations and which squarely fall within the purview of article 42 of the Constitution, the beneficent rule of construction which would enable the woman worker not only to subsist but also to make up her dissipated energy, nurse her child, preserve her efficiency as a worker and maintain the level of her previous efficiency and output has to be adopted by the Court.
Seven days as a term for periodical payments (of wager,, rent, or the like), or as a unit of reckoning for time of work or service.
(6) The failure to give notice under this section s not disentitle a woman to maternity benefit or any other amount under this Act if she is otherwise entitled to such benefit or amount and in any such case, an Inspector may either of his own motion or on an application made to him by the woman, order the payment of such benefit of amount within such period as may be specified in the order".
By its order dated February 26, 1969, the Labour Court allowed the claim of the respondent.
The real though difficult question that calls for determination by us is as to what is the connotation of the term "week" occurring in sub-ss.
(1) and (3) of section 5 of the Act is to be under stood as a week of work consisting of six days and in the instant case, respondent No. 2 was working and earning wages for six days in a week, the seventh day being a wageless holiday, her claim cannot be sustained.
In the Shorter Oxford English Dictionary (Third Edition), the word "week" has been described as meaning "the cycle of seven days, recognized in the calendar of the Jews and thence adopted in the calendars of Christian Mohammedan and various other peoples.
After her delivery, the respondent was paid by her employers on account of maternity benefit an amount equivalent to what she would have earned on the basis of her average daily wage in 72 working days falling within twelve week's of the maternity period.
For a proper determination of the question involved in the appeal, it would, we think, be useful to refer to certain provisions of the Act which have a bearing on the subject matter of the controversy before US.
" A "week" according to Halsbury's Laws of England (Third Edi- tion) Volume 37 at p. 84 is.
A space of seven days, irrespective of the time from which it is reckoned.
Dissatisfied with this decision, the establishment has, already stated, come up in appeal to this Court by special leave.
(3) Without prejudice to the provisions of section 6, no pregnant woman shall, on a request being made by her in this behalf, be required by her employer to do during the period specified in sub-s.
Assailing the judgment and order under appeal, Mr. Pai has urged that since legislative intent, as revealed from the scheme of section 5(1) of the Act is to compensate the woman worker who expects delivery for the loss that her forced absence from work on account of pregnancy and confinement may entail, the liability which has to be imposed on her employer cannot exceed the amount that she would have earned if she had not been compelled to avail of the maternity leave and since Sunday is a non-working wageless day, the employer cannot be made to pay for that day.
It appears that in October, 1967, Subbammal, respondent No. 2 herein, who is a woman worker employed in Mount Stuart Estate (hereinafter referred to as 'the establishment'), which is carrying on plantation industry, was allowed leave of absence by the establishment on the basis of a notice given by her of her expected delivery which actually took place on December 16, 1967.
