Cl.
(a) and (c).
(a) of section 239.
The power to grant pardon in a case pending before another Magistrate is no doubt conferred by the proviso only on the District Magistrate.
But Entry 7 (a) in Part V of Sch.
It divided the magistrates into two groups, Judicial magistrates and executive magistrates.
Therefore, they could not be jointly tried.
Sub-s.
Amounts which were misappropriated used to find their way in this account.
Take cls.
He was thus all important with respect to the every day affairs of VESCO.
Again, as already stated, section 234(1) does not override the provisions of section 235(1) which permits trial of a person for more offences than one committed during any period provided they are so connected together as to form one transaction.
Similarly Z can be charged with offence's under sections 147, 323 and offences under section 302 read with section 149 and section 325 read with section 149.
There are also other reasons which point to this conclusion which we will set out while considering the argument advanced by Mr. Bhimasankaram.
The third objection was that no charge of conspiracy could have been framed after the conspiracy had borne its fruits.
What is necessary to consider is whether applying all these tests we should act upon the evidence of the approver should be acted upon.
section 160 provides that a witness may also testify to the facts mentioned in any such document as is mentioned in section 159.
The AECO on the other band always had a Managing Director, first of whom was D.L.N. Raju.
For all these reasons we cannot accept the argument of learned counsel on the ground of misjoinder of charges and multiplicity of charges.
We have already indicated how those clauses may be grammatically read.
It obtained licences from the Government under the Electricity Act for supply of electrical energy to Visakhapatnam, Anakapalli and some other places.
The High Court allowed the revision application.
These are relevant facts.
(b) says that persons accused of an offence and persons accused of abetment, or, of an attempt to commit such offence may also be charged and tried together.
While we are disposed to agree with learned counsel that the questions embrace a number of matters and that it would have been better if those matters had been made the subjects of separate questions, the answers given by the respondents clearly show that they understood the questions and wherever possible they have given complete answers to those questions.
The decision in Queen Empress v. Grees Chunder Banerjee ((1884) I. L. R. 10 Cal 1024.), upon which reliance is placed by the High Court in support of its view is also to that effect.
There was a considerable uproar at that meeting because the respondent No. 1 said that the Auditor's report had not been received.
He, however, directed Ramana to make his confession before a SubMagistrate.
It is also their case that these firms maintain their accounts in the regular course of business and it is their practice to enter in those accounts all payments received by them.
Later, however, Murty was also got transferred to the general section and replaced by P. W. 18, Srinivasa Rao originally a stores boy.
We are also satisfied that there is no substance in the complaint that the questioning bordered on cross-examination.
(4) of section 342 and tell them that they may, if they chose, enter the witness box.
During the course of the attack one person from the second group was killed, as a rest of blows with an axe inflicted by the aggressors A, B and C. Two persons of the second group sustained grievous hurt as a result of lathi blows and one person sustained simple hurt.
Again, what was said by this Court was that it is undesirable to complicate a trial by introducing a large number of charges spread over a long period but even so this was a question of propriety which should be left to the discretion of the judge or Magistrate trying the case.
The reason why two alternative maximum sentences are given in col. 7, that is, transportation for life (now imprisonment for life) and imprisonment not exceeding 10 years appears to be that the offence is not exclusively triable by a court of session and could also be tried by a Magistrate, who, except when empowered under section 30 would be incompetent to try offences punishable with transportation for life (now imprisonment for life) and the further reason that it should be open to the court of Session, instead of awarding the sentence of transportation for life to a convicted person to award him imprisonment in a jail in India itself for a period not execeeding 10 years.
It says nothing about non-existence of entries in account books.
Para 19(3) occurring in this part deals with allocation of powers under the provisions of the Code otherwise than these referred to in the earlier paragraphs.
For, without combining these two clauses their joint trial for the two offences in each of which both have participated would be impermissible.
Each clause is an exception to the general rule enacted in section 233, Cr.
S. G. Krishna Aiyar after his appointment in January, 1952, made close enquiry and submitted an interim report.
Eventually many of those ventures failed.
Ss. 221 to 223 deal with the framing and content of charge.
Papers seized by the police include receipts purporting to have been signed by one J. J. Billimoria on behalf of the firm.
11.
12.
22.
13.
20.
15.
It is thus apparent that offences committed within a space of 12 months were tried along with offences committed beyond that period.
As a result of investigation they found that there was a total misappropriation of Rs. 3, 40, 000/-.
That report showed that during the period 1948-49 Rs. 33, 271-10-0 shown as paid to the Andhra Power System were in fact not paid.
Instead of doing that what he was permitted to do was just to prove the various documents or read those documents and then depose with reference to them.
But it should remove from its mind the misconception that the Additional Sessions judge has not believed him.
He was later promoted as Senior Accountant and in his place the respondent No. 2 Laksbminarayana Rao was appointed the Cashier.
III of the Government Order, which reads thus :" 21.
One significant fact, however, which occurred prior to 1946 - is referred to by the prosecution.
The High Court has propounded that the connection described in each of the various clauses is mutually exclusive, that no two of them can exist simulta- neously in any case and that one cannot, therefore, have in any case persons connected with one another in two or more ways.
The best evidence to prove the latter set of facts consists of the account books of the firms themselves.
This Court has thus clearly read the provisions of the various clauses cumulatively and we see no reason to read them differently.
be said to vitiate the charge.
This decision is, therefore, of little assistance.
The respondent No. 2 was asked by the respondent No. I to maintain a private note book.
Mr. Chari in support of his contention has cited a large number of cases, Indian as well as English, and certain passages from Halsbury's Laws of England.
No corresponding advantage can be gained by the accused persons by following the procedure of separate trials.
24.
23.
(a).
(a).
(d).
" 16.
14.
8.
7.
6.
5.
4.
3.
2.
1.
This decision completely meets the argument based upon Dawson's Case .
It seems to us that it would not be correct to read section 337 (1) in the way sought by learned counsel.
Besides that, C. section Raju's management of Andhra Cements had landed it into a loss of Rs. 30, 000/-`.
On the basis of the entries in the Handover Book the final accounts were written up.
The decision in Singarachariar's Case 1934 Indlaw MAD 352. C.), has really no bearing upon the point before us.
section 409 and section 471/467 are of different kinds and are not capable of joint commission.
The prosecution case in so far as it is material for the decision of this appeal is as follows : In the year 1929 the Andhra Engineering Co., which was originally a partnership firm formed by one D.L.N. Raju was converted into a private limited, company with its headquarters at Visakhapatnam.
But certain objections have been taken to it with which we will deal at the appropriate place.
Similarly if the second respondent were alone tried on the second charge his trial would not have been open to any objection if the allegation were that the offences were so connected together as to form the same transaction.
(3) Irrelevant evidence was introduced and some evidence was introduced in a manner not authorised by the Evidence Act.
The acquittal in the previous case was urged as a bar under section 403(1) of the Code to the trial for an offence under section 467, I.P.C. The contention apparently was that this was a case which fell under section 236, Cr.
In our opinion, there is no subtance in the contention.
The next point is a formidable one.
Case remanded.
It also permits that charges could be framed against an accused person in the alternative if the court thinks fit.
When an objection is taken at an early stage, there is time enough to rectify an error.
That was also the feeling-of a number of shareholders who wanted to see the original but one Dutt who was Chairman of the meeting after seeing exhibit P. 234 said that the report seemed to be a genuine one.
In the circumstances this point must also be rejected as being without substance.
This legal position does not, according to him, offend the guarantee against testimonial compulsion and he points out that that is the reason why an accused person is not to be administered an oath when the court examines him under section 342 (1) for enabling him to explain the circumstances appearing in evidence against him.
(5) The evidence of the approver was inadmissible because the pardon granted to him was illegal, that, in any case, it is unreliable, was so found even by the Sessions judge and must, therefore, be rejected.
Some of the members of the unlawful assembly carried axes with them while some others carried lathis and attacked the other group.
Subbaramayya took his work seriously and called for information on a number of points from the respondent No. 1.
(2) The procedure adopted in the investiga- tion and committal stages was irregular.
The gravity is of course to be determined with reference to the sentence awardable with respect to that offence.
The State of Andhra Pradesh has come up before this Court in appeal by obtaining special leave under article 136 of the Constitution.
R.K.N.G. Raju took till towards the end of 1947 and died at Madras in April, 1948.
We cannot, however, give the expression such a restricted meaning.
It is said that this person has not received much education and knows only bow to sign his name in English.
It could not have been the intention of the Legislature to create such a situation.
The court has, in addition, to ascertain whether his evidence has been corroborated sufficiently in material particulars.
There is another thing which we would like to make clear.
account books of VESCO show that certain sums of money were paid to various parties, Crompton Engineering Co., Lumin Electric Co., D. Brothers, Radio and Electrical, Madras, Vizagapatam Municipality, P. V. Ramanayya Bros., and Andhra Power System.
It is difficult to appreciate how this case assists the conclusion arrived at by the High Court.
Coming to the next point of Mr.. Bhimsankaram regarding the abuse of powers under section 342 his first contention was that long and involved questions were put to the respondents.
The respondents preferred appeals before the High Court challenging their convictions and sentences.
The VESCO had its own Board of Directors while the AECO had also its own separate Board of Directors.
10.
Now, section 159 expressly enables a witness while under examination to refresh his memory by referring to any writing made by himself at the time of the transaction concerning which he is being questioned or soon afterwards, or to a writing made -similarly by another person and read by the witness immediately or soon after the writing was made.
18.
A lakh of rupees passed through that account.
, Para 4 of the instructions provides" "Para 5 provides that as officers of the Revenue Department, those magistrates would be under the control of the Government through the Board of Revenue.
In fact written statements have been filed by each of them in which every point left over has been fully answered.
(a) is unavailable they could not be tried for the offence under section 147 at the same trial.
What the learned Additional Sessions judge has done is to err on the side of over-cautiousness by putting every circumstance appearing in the evidence to the respondents for eliciting their explanations.
The respondent No. I opened four personal accounts in different banks, including the Imperial Bank of India .
What was held there was that sections 235 (1) and section 236 are mutually exclusive and if a case is covered by one of them it cannot be covered by the other.
Similarly in Ram prashad Singh v. Lakhpati Koer ((1902) I. L. R. 30 Cal 231, 247).
Let us consider these clauses along with another illustration.
He, however, was unable to obtain any information.
The new provision, however, does no more than lift the ban and does not impose a duty on the court to draw the attention of an accused person to its contents.
With these observations we set aside the acquittal of the respondents and remit the appeal to the High Court for decision on merits in the light of our observations.
On the strength of these considerations Mr. Chari for the State contends that if the words "any offence punishable with imprisonment which may extend to 10 years" were interpreted to mean offences which were punishable with imprinsonment of less than 10 years grave offences which are not exclusively triable by a court of Sessions will be completely out of section 337 (1).
According to the prosecution both these concerns were running smoothly and efficiently during the lifetime of D.L.N. Raju because he was personally attending to their affairs.
Then this Court has observed:" ".
This decision has been followed in Natwarlal Sakarlal Mody v. The State of Bombay ( Crl. A. No. III of 1959 decided on January 19, 1961. ).
These entries are, however, not by themselves sufficient to charge any person with liability.
On February 12, 1952 the respondent No. I wrote to the Managing Director admitting his responsibility and agreed to make good the amounts found short or such other amounts as would be found short up to the end of March, 1952.
All this is not disputed.
19.
Why can they not be tried jointly for both murders and why should there be two trials for the two murders ? The offences are of the same kind and must be deemed to have been committed in the course of the same transaction because of association and mutual connection.
He contends that section 337 (1) speaks of the District Magistrate which expression does not include an Additional District Magistrate.
It is true that the question of reading the various clauses cumulatively did not specifically arise for decision in that case but the High Court had held that the first charge was an omnibus charge containing as many as 203 offences and that it was in direct violation of sections 234, 235 and 239 of the Code of Criminal Procedure.
It thus lays down the normal rule to be followed in every case.
He was also told that apart from signing important papers which may be sent to him by the respondent No. I from time to time to Manchili or wherever be might be would have no work to do.
The second charge is for an offence of criminal breach of trust punishable under section 409 and the accusation therein is that the two respondents along with Ramana, misappropriated 69 items aggregating to a little over Rs. 3, 20, 000/-.
No complaint was made by the respondents even in appeal that they were ignorant of their right, that had they known about it they would have given evidence on oath in their defence and that because of this they have been prejudiced.
This is quite clear from the provisions of section 537 of the Code as amended by Act 26 of 1955.
We entirely agree with the High Court that joint trial should be founded on some 'principle'.
section 34 does not go beyond that.
But domestic consumers usually paid their bills in cash to the bill collectors who used to hand over their collections to the respondent No. 2.
According to the prosecution the report is a forged document.
He pressed his claim for appointment as Secretary of VESCO and representative of the Managing Agents at Visakhapatnam and R .H.G. Raju appointed him to that post.
In the first place there the trial had not actually begun.
A case under enquiry or trial before another magistrate does not fall in any of these classes.
A pointed reference was made to question No. 20 put to respondent No. I which contains as many as 22 sub-heads and it is said that it was an extremely unfair and embarrassing question.
The idea was to prevent the commission of crimes by, so to , speak, nipping them in the bud.
What has been held in all these cases is that where the trial of a person who was charged with having committed an offence or offences jointly with several persons is separated from the trial of those persons, he would be a competent witness against them though of course there will always be the question as to what weight should be attached to his evidence.
It was also his duty to have the accounts of VESCO audited by the auditors elected by the general body and to produce before the auditors the relevant accounts, vouchers, bank statements and so on.
Various sentences were passed against them by the Additional Sessions judge, Visakhapatnam, who presided over the court.
Mr.
In our opinion the words "within the meaning of section 234" indicate that what was meant by the words offence of the same kind" "'persons accused of more offences than one of the same kind not exceeding three in number"or may have used the words" person accused of more than one offence of the same kind to the extent permissible under section 234" 17.
Now, supposing in the illustration given A killed the man and B killed his wife.
In Willie (William) Slaney v. The State of Madhya Pradesh , all the learned judges were in agreement on the point that this section and section 535 cover every case in which there is departure from the rules set out in Ch.
Another thing which the respondent No. I initiated was opening a heading in the ledger called "advance purchase of materials.
Upon this understanding he accepted the position offered to him.
That again was a matter which came before the High Court before conviction and not after the trial was over.
(2) and (3) of section 235 are enabling provisions and quite plainly can have no overriding effect.
(d) persons accused of different offences committed in the course of the same transaction can be tried together.
In the circumstances we wish to say nothing further on the point.
However, the meeting was postponed and eventually held on December 9, 1951.
Alternatively, the State Government has not made any directions under sub-s.
XIX ranging from error, omissions and irregularities in charges that are framed, down to charges that might have been framed and were not and include a total omission to frame a charge at all at any stage of the trial.
This decision is sufficient to dispose of the point under consideration.
It is no doubt true that an approver has always been regarded as an infamous witness, who, on his own showing has participated in a crime or crimes and later to save his own skin, turned against his former associates and agreed to give evidence against them in the hope that he will be pardoned for the offence committed by him.
What value to attach to them is another matter and would be for the Court of fact to consider.
Criminal conspiracy as defined in section 120-A and consists of an agreement to do an illegal act or an agreement to do an act which is not illegal by illegal means.
The shareholders felt that the report had been received but was being suppressed or deliberately withheld.
This would lead to unnecessary multiplicity of trials involving avoidable inconvenience to the witnesses and avoidable expenditure of public time and money.
The respondent No. 1, Ganeswara Rao was also an old employee of AECO, having been appointed a stenotypist in the year 1923 on an initial salary of Rs. 40/- p.m. Eventually he became the Head Clerk therein.
In so far as the portion included in the bracket is concerned we agree with the learned counsel that it should not have found place there.
His object was to obviate the possibility of a complaint before the appellate court that they were denied the opportunity of explaining the circumstances appearing in evidence against them because of defective questions.
But the ultimate decision of the case would negative such argument.
The conspiracy is said to have been hatched in the year 1947 and falsification of accounts and misappropriation of funds of VESCO went on till the end of the accounting year.
Apart from that, the respondents were represented by counsel at the trial who knew very well what the law was.
The VESCO used to receive large amounts of money from high tension power consumers such as the railways, K. G. Hospital, the Port Administration, the Andhra University etc., by cheques.
The object of the learned Additional Sessions Judge quite clearly was, as already stated, to leave no loophole for a complaint to be made before the appellate court of incomplete or insufficient examination under section 342.Finally we are clear that it was not the duty of the court to draw the pointed attention of the respondents to the provisions of sub-s.
The decision in Sarwan Singh v. The State of Punjab ([1957] B. C. R. 953.), on which reliance has been placed by the High Court has been explained by this Court in the case of Maj. E. G. Barsay v. The State of Bombay .
In this connection he relied upon the words "within the meaning of section 224" occurring in cl.
Therefore, even if the expression "'same transaction" alone had been used in section 235(1) it would have meant a transaction consisting either of a single act or of a series of connec- ted acts.
In order to appreciate and consider the argument it is desirable to bear in mind the changes in the magisterial set up in the former province of Madras which comprised within it the district of Visakhapatnam.
The question raised is an important one and requires a serious consideration.
The third charge is that the two respondents, along with the approver Ramana made false entries on seven different dates in the account books between September 19, 1947 and March 18, 1952 and thus committed an offence under section 477-A, I.P.C. The fourth charge is that the two respondents, along with the approver Ramana forged six documents on different dates between March 28, 1949 and November 12, 1951 and thus committed an offence under section 471 read with section 467, I.P.C. As we have pointed out earlier the respondent No. I alone was convicted by the Additional Sessions judge in respect of the third and fourth charges.
According to the prosecution the respondent No. I wanted to take advantage of this fact and conceived of a scheme for misappropriating as much money belonging to VESCO as possible before the managing agency agreement of AECO came to an end in October, 1948.
It would be necessary for it to consider for itself the evidence adduced by the prosecution on the specific charges and then to conclude whether those charges have been established or not.
What intrinsic difficulty is there in trying them all together simultaneously availing of cls.
On the face of it this is a valid charge.
In the first place according to the High Court, joint trial of two or more persons in respect of different offences cornmitted by each of them is illegal and that here as they were charged with having committed offences under section 120-B, section 409, section 477-A and section 476/467, I.P.C. they could not be tried jointly.
(2) of section 235 deals with a case where an offence falls within two definitions and sub-s.(3) deals with a case in which a number of acts are alleged against an accused person, different com- binations of which may constitute different offences.
In support of his contention he strongly relied upon the decision in Kandaswamy Gounder In re : the appellant (I.L.R. 1957 Mad 715 ), and the cases referred to therein, in particular the decision in Winson v. Queen ((1866) L.R. I Q.B.).
It may further - be mentioned that the account books of VESCO show certain payments made to Billimoria & Co. of Kharagpur.
Consequent on the separation he became only an Additional District Magistrate.
It may be mentioned that Subba Raju used to visit Visakhapatnam twice a month and check up the account books.
A new cash book was also said to have been prepared by the conspirators with the object of covering up the misappropriations which had been made.
If pardon is tendered to an accused person and eventually it is found that the pardon is illegal such person is pushed back into the rank of an accused person and being no more than an accomplice would be a competent witness.
This person was Auditor for Greenlands Hotel at Visakhapatnam, of which the respondent No. I was a Director.
But it does not follow that where crimes have been committed the liability to punishment already incurred under section 120-B by having entered into a criminal conspiracy is thereby wiped away.
Mr. Bhimasankaram then relying upon the decision in R. v. Dawson ( [1960] 2 W.L.R. 435, contended that in any event it was not desirable to try the respondents at the same trial for as many as 83 offences and pointed out that these observations had received the approval of this Court in The State of Andhra Pradesh v. Kandimalla Subbaiah ([1962] 2 B. C.R. 194. ).
This person, however, did not shift to Visakhapatnam on his becoming the Managing Director but continued to stay most of the time at Rajahmundry.
Even assuming for a moment that this charge is cumbersome in the absence of any objection by the respondents at the proper time and in the absence of any material from which we could infer prejudice, they are precluded by the provisions of section 225 from complaining about it at any rate after their conviction by the trial court.
What we have said about pardon in respect of an offence under section 409 would apply equally to that for one under section 120-B because the punishment for it is the same as that for the offence under section 409.
In coming to this conclusion it has relied upon the provisions of section 356 (2A) of the Code of Criminal Procedure.
No reason has been stated in support of this view.
The Interim Report showed that there was a shortage of about Rs. 90, 000/- for this period.
Further, 64 documents were missing from the records when they came to the High Court and that this has caused serious prejudice to the respondent.
That is why they read rather queer but even so they serve the purpose of allowing certain offences triable by a court of Session, to be triable also by Magistrates of the First Class.
In that case the question was whether a person who was first tried for an offence under section 380, I.P.C. for stealing a blank second class railway ticket from the booking office, tried, for it and acquitted, could not be tried subsequently for the offence of forgery by making entries in that ticket and using it.
section 232 deals with the power of the. appellate court or the High Court when it discovers that there is material error in the charge.
Because of all these things he had C. section Raju replaced towards the end of the year 1951 by one Subbaramayya, a retired Finance Officer from the Madras Electricity Board both as a Director of Andhra Cements and as a Supervisor over the accounts of VESCO.
The approver who was originally an Accounts clerk with the AECO was, it may be mentioned, appointed a cashier in VESCO in 1946 at the instance of the respondent No. I and was thus beholden to him.
III when it refers to the power of a District Magistrate under section 337 (1) does not exclude the power under the proviso.
