treasury.
considered for the purposes of according sanction were (a) that the Appellant as a public servant was entrusted with crops situated on the land acquired for the extension of Air Field, Sirsa ; (b) that by abusing his position as a public servant he allowed the standing crops to be cut from the said land ; (c) that by corrupt or illegal means and by abusing his position as a public servant he obtained pecuniary advantage Of Rs. 2500 as the value of the crops to be cut from the land and/or he dishonestly or fraudulently misappropriated that sum by converting it into his own use instead of depositing the said sale price in the Govt.
The acquired land extended from RD 1200 to RD 00.
exhibit P.8 as already noticed is the letter of Telu Ram Jain to the Assistant Garrison Engineer and P. 10 is the letter of Telu Ram Jain to the Garrison Engineer.
The work according to that agreement was to be done in 2 phases-first phase was to commence on 10th January 1963 and was to be completed by 9th October 1963.
The Military Estates Officer, Delhi, Mr. K. K. Gamkhar will also be here on 13th morning.
He was charged with and tried for two offences under Section 5(1) (a) of the Act for habitually accepting or obtaining illegal gratification and under Section 5(1)(d) for receiving illegal gratification from Pal Singh.
Major Som Nath did not account for this amount in the Govt.
Similarly, it is said that the Tehsildar N. L. Handa has not been produced.
The extension of the Airstrip would mean that the existing Airstrip is being extended, so that the initial work can be started and continued on the existing Airstrip.
He also inform in that letter that the excavation in all available portions of the taxi track and runway has been completed.
14.
The lands which were acquired belonged to several land holders including Moti Ram and P.W. 12 Kewal Chand.
of India.
It is therefore necessary to first examine the order of sanction to ascertain on what facts it has been accorded.
" 24.
It is lastly contended that certain witnesses who would be necessary to unfold the prosecution story have not been called and.in spite of the Court directing the production, of the usufruct register it was not produced.
Apart from this amount compensation was also awarded for standing crop amounting to Rs. 11,073.13 np.
23.
28.
Appeal dismissed
and Gokulchand Dwarkadas Mordrka v. The King,  1948 Indlaw PC 39 13.
P.W. 14, says that symbolic possession was delivered to him in respect of the acquired land on the 1st February'63.
This evidence, however, does not assist the accused.
The person who had signed the receipt is Sukhchain Lal Jain and he was examined as P.W. 11.
26.
My dear Mr. Nagpal, I am writing to you With regard to.
17.
27.
29.
30.
To the Question "Have all sites- been handed over on due date" the answer shown- was an affirmative 'yes'.
It cannot, therefore be said that circumstances appearing against the accused which have formed the basis of the conviction had not been put to him.
" 16.
In this letter he says: - "12th Feb. 1963.
18.
It can be seen from the above that the appellant is reluctant to reply in writing as to what he is asking the contractor to do under verbal orders while the contractor for safeguarding his position is insisting on having it in writing.
19.
" 20.
10.
He may please be asked to complete this formality without any loss of time.
31.
25.
22.
21.
" 15.
" 9.
8.
7.
6.
" 5.
Revenues.
4.
3.
2.
1.
This again does not specifically refer to the land which is being acquired.
Mani Ram Patwari had stated that by the 20th March 1963 some ground had been cleared.
If so a charge under Section 5(1)(c) would implicate those persons also in the commission of an offence which certainly would not have, been in the contemplation of the authorities granting the sanction.
This statement is clearly false as it is against credible documentary evidence at a time when there was no possibility of any charge being levied against the appellant.
Before the High Court also this grievance was aired but that Court also likewise found no justification in it.
It would however appear from Exh.
acquisition of land for Sirsa Airfield.
We are therefore not impressed with this argument.
Rs. 3,000 only, which amount he accepted for his personal use and thereby also abused his official position and obtained pecuniary advantage, for himself in a sum of Rs. 3000.
, It is desirable that entire proceedings With regard to acquisition of land and determining compensation for standing crops for the total area of 39.58 acres in Mirpur and Ahmadpur villages tire finalised an this date.
The only question is, what use can be made of such statements even where the witness admits having signed the statements made before the Military Authorities.
Now therefore, the Central Govt both hereby accord sanction under Section 197-Code of Criminal Procedure (Act No. 5 of 1898) and Section 6(1)(a) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1947 (Act II of 1947) for the prosecution of Maj.
The learned Advocate for the Appellant has meticulously taken us through the entire documentary and oral evidence and commented at length upon the various contradictions and incongruities in the case of the prosecution with a view to establishing that when the Appellant took possession of the land there was no crop standing on it-that tile possession of the land 'was in fact delivered to Telu Ram, Contractor on 10-1-1963; that the said Contractor had admitted 'that possession of the entire land was received by him; that he carried on the construction work in extending the Aerodrome; that 200/250 donkeys were also used for doing the work by reason of which the crop was damaged before Tehsildar had put the Appellant in possession of the land and as a matter of fact there was no crop thereon when he got the possession of the land.
In support of this contention three decisions have been cited before us namely Bhagat Ram v. State of Punjab  1954 Indlaw SC 188, Madan Mohan Singh V. State of U. P., Privy Council 82.
, He thus.
12.
Sd/- (A. P. Veera Raghavan) Deputy Secretary to the Govt.
11.
The Session Judge had found that both charges were proved.
I therefore request you to issue suitable instructions to, your staff so that all the relevant papers may be suitably prepared.
This question in turnwill depend upon what are the ingredients of the offences under 5(1)(c) and (d) read with Section 5(2).
No further action is required to be taken".
A person could not be charged merely with the breach of a particular provision of the Order; he must be charged with the commission of certain acts which constitute a breach, and it is to that prosecution that is for having done acts which constitution breach of the Order-that the sanction 'is required.
As I have told you personally, we are keen to finalise the proceedings for the total area to be acquired by us and not by phses.
This is interest of the project.
In our view there is no justification for holding that the conviction under Section 5(1)(c) read with 5(2) is bad for want of the requisite sanction.
The whole of the previous statement however cannot be treated as substantive evidence.
These omissions it is submitted by the learned advocate has prejudiced the accused.
Though it is desirable that the facts should be referred to in the sanction itself, nonetheless if they do not appear on the face of it, the prosecution must establish aliunde by evidence that those facts were placed before the sanctioning authorities.
From the above order it is apparent that the facts which the Central Govt.
" In reply the Appellant states in his letter exhibit P. 12 dated the 10th April "The matter has already been discussed with you and finalised.
It was held that an alteration of the Appellant's conviction' under Section 409 I.P.C. into one of abetment thereof would imply a definite finding against the subordinate Judge who is not before the Court and as such it would be unfair to make such an alteration.
of India took steps to acquire some lands of agriculturists pursuant to which a Notification dated November 27, 1962 was issued under Section 4 of the Land Acquisition Act 1894 for acquiring 51.79 acres of land situated in the State of Ahmedpur.
