On the other hand what the plaintiff (appellant) stated shows that no opportunity was given to him to remove the movable improvements, such as cultivation, cattle, machines, utensils, houses, stocked crops, ripe crops etc.
" In this view it held that compensation for trees which are to be dealt with under the general law cannot be decreed in favour of a mere trespasser who had no rights therein.
1939, Ext.
in the bona fide belief that the lands belonged to the Illom.
In that suit the appellant, after his application for registration was rejected, sought to get himself impleaded, but that application also was rejected.
Appeal dismissed.
27.
In its view these words take in what is familiarly known in law as 'emblements' which according to Black's.
The words "raised on the land" qualify both the 'crop' and 'other product', so the words "other product" have to be read in the context of the word 'crop' which precedes it.
24.
These averments in the above paragraph do not clearly allege that he was not evicted without notice, nor has any allegation been made that he was forcibly evicted from the lands with the help of the police etc.
Appellant be allowed to remove them after his dispossession.
Thereafter the suit out of which this appeal arises was filed against the Government on October 24, 1942.
13.
10.
12.
11.
as it has now been contended before us.
it was observed by the Trial Court that though there is no specific evidence to show when exactly the possession of the appellant had commenced, the evidence however indicated that it must have started close to the year I 100 M. E. and that in any case the claim of the appellant that possession was from 1030 M.E. was not true inasmuch as from the year 1067 M.E. when the Act was passed possession without permission was penal and it could not be imagined that the appellant was left in peace for all these long years.
The appellant's father and the appellant had occupied these lands, made improvement thereon by planting coconut trees, arecanut palms, peppervines, rubber-trees, jack trees, other trees, and by constructing bungalow, huts, wells etc.
14.
19.
No authority has been cited for this novel proposition, and if accepted, it would give validity to a dangerous principle which will condone all acts of deliberate and wrongful trespass because any person desparate enough to trespass on other mans' land without any claim of title can always plead that he had a bona fide intention of improving the land whether the owner of that land wants that improvement or not.
Before dealing with this aspect,, we will first consider the question whether trees are included within the meaning of section 9, so as to entitle the appellant to a notice of forfeiture there under.
Law Dictionary mean "Such products of the soil as are annually planted, served and saved by manual labour, as cereals, vegetables, Grass maturing for harvest or harvested, etc., but not grass on lands used for pasturage.
It may here be mentioned that while the suit of the Illom i.e. O.S. No. 126 of 1096 M.E. was pending in the District Court, Quilon, the Government of Travancore had initiated proceedings in ejectment against the appellant by L. C. Case No. 112 of 1100; (1925 A.D.).
" 26.
" 25.
23.
22.
21.
20.
17.
" 16.
15.
8.
7.
6.
VI.
5.
4.
A).
3.
2.
1.
P.W. 4 the Manager was asked in cross-examination whether he had been given any priorinformation or notice about eviction and this witness also said that there was no prior information or notice.
That was a case of a trespass for breaking and entering the closes of the plaintiffs and tearing up, digging up, cutting down, and carrying away the plaintiff's trees, plants, roots and seeds, growing on the closes.
In his helplessness the plaintiff had even applied to Government to give him the land in which he had effected improvements, on kuthakapattom.
In this sense the term includes "fructus industrials" and having regard to the etymology of the word it has been held to mean only products after they have been severed from the soil.
This view of ours is supported by the case of Clark and Another v. Gaskarth, 8 Taunt 431.
There were other allegations also but it is unnecessary for purposes of this appeal to refer to them.
12-6-1094, the petitioner knew that the land was Government land and had then applied for assignment of the land.
It was Contended-that the defendant's action was justified under the statute II G. 2, C. 19, section 8, which after enumerating certain crops, empowered the landlord to seize as a distress any "other product whatsoever which shall be growing on any part of the estate demised" and, therefore, the trees and shrubs in question came within that description.
It is in this connection, he says, that no legal procedure had been followed by Government for taking them into possession, which only implies that it is in respect of the items mentioned in paragraph-3.
According to his submission a person is nevertheless a bona fide trespasser if he enters upon the land with a bona fide intention of improving the land.
Even under this definition "product" cannot mean anything which is attached to the land like trees.
This vicarious and altruistic exhibition of good intention may even cause damage to the land of an owner who may not want improvements of such a kind as tree plantation.
This appeal is by special leave against the judgment and decree of the High Court of Kerala which dismissed an appeal against the judgment and decree of the Subordinate Court of Havelikkara.
CC set out the improvements made by the appellant on the lands which comprised of a bungalow in which the appellant was residing, a number of small houses.
: yield; income; receipts; return . ............ The "products" of a farm may include, the increase of cattle on the premises................" 18.
Upon such land, including a portion in the possession of the appellant they proceeded to erect buildings without the necessary notification under section 6 of the Land Acquisition Act which was not served until November 4, 1920.
The respondent did not understand the averments in the plaint as alleging that no notice to quit was given to him is evident from the written statement of the respondent in paragraph, where it is stated thus: "This defendant submits that after due notice an order of forfeiture has been passed in Poramboke Case 112 of 11 00 and the plaintiff is therefore not entitled to claim any value of improvements or value of any building.
need be given under section 9 of the Act and, therefore no compensation or damages were payable in respect thereof. 9.
It then said: "If the possession commenced only about the year 1100, it certainly cannot be under any bona fide claim of title for even on.
The case of Vallabdas Narainji v. Development Officer, Bandra, A.I.R. 1929 P.C. 163 1929 Indlaw PC 11 which was cited by the learned counsel for the appellant does not assist him, for the Privy Council did not think it necessary to give a decision on what it termed to be a far-reaching contention.
This practice it seems, was also current in respect of lands belonging to the, Government before the Travancore Land Conservancy Act 4 of 1091 (24-7-1916) (hereinafter called 'the Act').
The issues that had been famed by the Trial Court also do not refer to this aspect.
While this dispute was pending it appears the appellant applied to the Conservator of Forests for registration of the lands in his name, but the application was rejected on June 14, 1919 stating that the land applied for cannot be registered (Ext.
In any case, as the High Court rightly observed, the position of a trespasser cannot be better than that of a lawful tenant who having lost his possession cannot claim compensation or damages for anything erected on the land or any improvements made therein.
Section 9 of the Act is in the following terms : "Any person unauthorised occupying any land for which he is liable to pay a fine under section 6 and an assessment or prohibitory assessment under section 7, may be summarily evicted by the Division Peishkar, and any crop or other product raised on the land shall be liable to forfeiture and any building or other structure erected or anything deposited thereon shall also, if not removed by him after such written notice as the Division Peishkar may deem reasonable, be liable to forfeiture. 'Forfeiture under this section shall be disposed of as the Division Peishkar may direct.
