Although in relation to a body corporate incorporated and registered under the Indian Companies Act, the doctrine of lifting the corporate veil would be applicable, but the same cannot be applied in case of individuals.
So far as Question No. 4 is concerned, this Court despite upholding the contention of the Custodian that no question of any reopening of tax assessments before the Special Court would arise and the liability of the notified person to pay the tax will have to be determined under the machinery provided by the relevant tax law, observed: "But the Special Court can decide how much of that liability will be discharged out of the funds in the hands of the Custodian.
(vi) The decretal amount against the Harshad Mehta Group also would exceed Rs. 4339 crores and, thus, the assets held by the Appellants are wholly insufficient to meet the liabilities.
It was directed: "In case, all adult members of the family of late Shri Harshad Metha, who are presently occupying the abovereferred flats, file an undertaking in this Court within a period of four weeks from today undertaking to vacate the flat occupied by them and hand over peaceful possession thereof to the custodian within a period of four weeks from the date on which the custodian sends them communication asking them to vacate the flats, on sale of the flats being sanctioned by the Court.
(III) Late Harshad Mehta Rs. 11829 crores (IV) Jyoti Mehta Rs. 1457 crores (V) Hitesh Mehta Rs. 73 crores (VI) Pratima Mehta Rs. 115 crores (even after deducting the amount set aside by ITAT it exceeds Rs. 35 crores) (VII) Sudhir Mehta Rs. 339 crores (VIII) Aatur Holdings Rs. 15.95 crores (even after deducting the amount set aside by ITAT, it exceeds Rs. 2.7 crores)" 36.  The Custodian has further brought on records that if the transactions by or on behalf of corporate entity, viz., Aatur Holdings Pvt. Ltd. and Dr. Pratima Mehta by way of illustration are taken into consideration, the same would reveal their modus operandi to the effect that the moneys were diverted from banks and financial institutions by late Harshad Mehta which were in turn diverted to his family concerns and family members.
4.  The properties of Late Harshad Mehta and the Appellants, herein being notified persons stood attached in terms of the provisions of the Act.
LIABILITIES OF THE APPELLANTS   DETERMINATION 27.  The fact, however, remains that the copies of the documents, books of accounts and other records on the basis whereof the Auditors appointed by the Court filed their reports had not been shown to the Appellants herein, on the premise that they were in know of the things.
(v) The assets and liabilities of each of the entities having been audited by the Chartered Accountants, it is evident from the reports that in all cases liabilities exceed the assets.
If the liabilities of the individual entities are not treated as that of the group, for one reason or the other, indisputably, liability of those who have nothing to do with the dealings of Harshad Mehta either in their individual capacities or as Directors of some company or otherwise must be dealt with separately.
In fact one of the contentions raised on behalf of the Appellants had been that if commercial properties are sold, there would be no need to sale the residential properties.
" But, in this case, the orders of assessment have been set aside.
(ix) The learned Judge, Special Court while hearing the matter in terms of this order shall also consider as to whether the auction sale should be confirmed or not.
" But, the said observation was held to be not laying down a law by a 3-Judge Bench of this Court in L.S. Synthetics Ltd. v. Fairgrowth Financial Services Ltd. and Another [(2004) 11 SCC 456] 2004 Indlaw SC 715 holding: "(i) A notified party has the requisite locus to bring the fact to the notice of the Special Court that certain sum is owing and due to him from a third party whereupon a proceeding can be initiated for recovery thereof by the Custodian and consequent application thereof in discharge of the liability of the notified person.
In any event, ordinarily, a bona fide purchaser for value in an action sale is treated differently than a decree holder purchasing such properties.
So far Question No. 6 is concerned, it was held that the remedy of a notified person who is assessed to penalty or interest, after the notified period, would be entitled to move the appropriate authority under the taxing statute stating: "If it is open to him under the relevant taxing statute to contend that he was unable to pay his taxes on account of the attachment of all his properties under the Special Court Act, and that there is a valid reason why penalty or interest should not be imposed upon him after the date of notification, the authorities concerned under the taxing statute can take notice of these circumstances in accordance with law for the purpose of deciding whether penalty or interest can be imposed on the notified person.
In regard to Question No. 2, it was opined: "Every kind of tax liability of the notified person for any other period is not covered by section 11(2)(a), although the liability may continue to be the liability of the notified person.
38.  In any view of the matter, the learned Judge, Special Court having not dealt with the question as regard the mode and manner of disbursements of the amount so far as the tax liabilities of the Appellants are concerned elaborately, the same requires fresh determination in the light of the decision of this Court in Harshad Shantilal Mehta 1998 Indlaw SC 732 (supra).
In the alternative, is a notified person liable to payment of penalty or interest arising from his inability to pay taxes after his notification?" As regard, Question No. 1, it was held: "In the present case, the words "taxes due" occur in a section dealing with distribution of property.
It is true that horrendous figures as regard the liabilities of Harshad Mehta have been projected before us but the same had been shown to be of the entire Group.
Applications filed by the Appellants herein for release of the residential flats as well as the commercial premises from attachment were dismissed.
(x) We would, however, request the learned Special Judge, Special Court to complete the hearings of the matter, keeping in view of the fact that auction sale in respect of the residential premises is being consideration, as expeditiously as possible and not later than twelve weeks from the date of the receipt of the copy of this order.
(iii) The provisions of the Limitation Act, 1963 have no application in relation to the proceedings under the said Act.
The following liabilities shall be paid or discharged in full, as far as may be, in the order as under: (a) all revenues, taxes, cesses and rates due from the persons notified by the Custodian under sub-s.
(2) of section 4 of the Act.
Application being 4 of 2001 was filed by the Custodian praying for the sale of commercial premises.
Taxes which are not legally assessed or assessments which have not become final and binding on the assessee, are not covered under section 11(2)(a) because unless it is an ascertained and quantified liability, disbursement cannot be made.
The flats have been sold on the basis of the joint liabilities of the Appellants together with Harshad Mehta and other companies as a group.
The same consideration does not apply when the decree-holder is himself the purchaser and the decree in his favour is set aside.
The question as to whether the Appellants could have been considered to be part of Harshad Mehta Group by the learned Special Court need not be determined by us as, at present advised, in view of the fact that appropriate applications in this behalf are pending consideration before the learned Special Court.
We, therefore, would direct that the confirmation of sale of those flats be considered and appropriate order thereupon may be passed by the learned Special Court while considering the matter afresh.
(iii) As regard the tax liabilities of the Appellants, herein, we would request the learned Judge, Special Court to consider the matter afresh in the light of the observations made hereinbefore.
The eldest among them, Harshad section Mehta, has since expired.
The learned Judge proceeded on the basis that the assets and liabilities, joint and collective, of all those who are related with Harshad Mehta as also the corporate entities in which he was a Director or had some other interest must be considered as a group.
On the other hand, the contention of the Custodian is that the Appellants had not only taken huge loans or advances from Harshad Mehta in one capacity or the other but also even transactions and shares were made by Harshad Mehta on their behalf.
The Appellants, herein contended that the Custodian did not furnish the requisite particulars thereof and inspection was refused on the grounds stated therein.
This may be so, but then the effect of the rival contentions was required to be gone into by the learned Special Court.
Several subsequent events have also been brought to our notice.
The said nine flats, it is said, were merged and redesigned for joint living of the entire family.
41 of 1999, 4 of 2001, 265, 266 and 275 of 2003.
We may further notice that the learned Special Court relied upon a decision in Custodian v. Union of India and Ors.
He furthermore wanted to treat the liabilities of the notified entities also as their separate liabilities.
25.  The contention of the Appellants to the effect that their properties should have been attached only towards the liabilities incurred by the parties in respect of the transactions made during the Statutory Period, cannot be accepted as all the Appellants being notified, the attachment of the assets would be automatic.
Applications praying for lifting of attachment on their residential premises on the ground that the same had been purchased much prior to 1.April.1991 and the same had no nexus with any illegal transactions in securities.
The learned Special Judge has accepted the figures stated by the Custodian at face value without probing the basis on which the statement was prepared, even though the Appellants in their sur-rejoinder asserted that the figures in the statement were contrary to both the books of accounts drawn by them as also the Auditor's report.
Even in the case of Dr. Pratima Mehta wherein some excesses has been shown, if the interest is calculated for the last over 13 years of the amount received, the liabilities would exceed the assets.
IMPUGNED JUDGMENT 8.  By reason of the impugned order dated 17.October.2003, the learned Special Judge allowed Misc.
45.  In that view of the matter, evidently, creation of any third party interest is no longer in dispute nor the same is subject to any order of this Court.
(2) To deal with the situation and in particular to ensure speedy recovery of the huge amount involved, to punish the guilty and restore confidence in and maintain the basic integrity and credibility of the banks and financial institutions the Special Court (Trial of Offences Relating to Transactions in Securities) Ordinance, 1992, was promulgated on the 6th June, 1992.
section 11 of the Act reads as under: "Discharge of liabilities.
The Ordinance provides for the establishment of a Special Court with a sitting Judge of a High Court for speedy trial of offences relating to transactions in securities and disposal of properties attached.
7.  We may, at this juncture, notice the nature of the applications filed by the parties, herein before the learned Special Court: (i) On 26.April.1999, the Custodian filed an application being Misc.
But if the assessment is a "best judgment" assessment, the Special Court may examine whether, for example, the income which is so assessed to tax bears comparison to the amounts attached by the Custodian, or whether the taxes so assessed are grossly disproportionate to the properties of the assessee in the hands of the Custodian, applying the Wednesbury Principle of Proportionality.
43.  By an order dated 30th January, 2004, while admitting the appeals, this Court directed: "The learned counsel for the Custodian brings on record the result of the bids and the order of the Special Court dated 17.December.2003 and 20.January.2004.
It is, furthermore not in dispute that in a large number of cases the appellate authorities have set aside Best Judgment assessments.
It is significant that in the present case, the liability had even been quantified and a demand had been created in the sum of Rs 1,49,776 by means of the notice, dated November 21, 1957, during the pendency of the assessment proceedings before the Income Tax Officer and before the finalisation of the assessment.
We, therefore, do not interfere with that part of the order whereby and wherewith the auction sale, as regard commercial properties, had been directed by the learned Judge, Special Court.
In terms of the provisions of the Act, the Special Court had been conferred a very wide power.
It will also be open to the learned Judge, Special Court to pass an interim order or orders, as it may think fit and proper, in the event any occasion arises therefor.
" 12.  section 3 of the Act provides for appointment and functions of the Custodian.
(1) of section 4 of the Act reads as under: "Contracts entered into fraudulently may be cancelled.-- If the Custodian is satisfied, after such inquiry as he may think fit, that any contract or agreement entered into at any time after the 1st day of April, 1991 and on and before the 6th June, 1992 in relation to any property of the person notified under sub-s.
(iii) The order of assessment under the Income Tax Act having become final and binding as on the date when the orders of assessment were passed and, thus, mere filing of appeals, were not sufficient for raising a contention that the taxes did not become due.
34.  The statement annexed to the affidavit of the Custodian showed individual break-up and in that view of the matter the net asset picture of each individual of the Appellants herein on individual basis and the effect thereof, in our opinion, should have received serious consideration at the hands of the learned Special Court.
The purchasers have also filed applications for their impleadment in these appeals.
20.  Before adverting to the questions raised herein, we may notice that both the parties have raised several contentions before us which have not precisely been raised before the learned Special Judge.
It was enacted for dealing with an extra-ordinary situation in the sense that any person who was involved in any offence relating to transaction of any security may be notified whereupon, all his properties stand attached.
32.  Our attention has also been drawn to a letter dated 7.October.2003 addressed by all the Appellants to the Office of the Custodian wherein the attention of the Custodian was drawn to the fact that all the documents relied upon by him had not been permitted to be inspected and he was requested to forward a report prepared by the Chartered Accountants in respect of the individual addressors of the letters.
What would be the effect of the jurisdictional question as regard maintainability of the said application, being barred by limitation, would indisputably fall for consideration before the Special Court.
The contention raised on behalf of the Appellants is that the Harshad Mehta should be considered to be sui generis and the Custodian may realize his dues from his personal assets as also of those with which he was concerned together with the assets of his front companies but such liability should not be fastened upon others who had nothing to do therewith.
6.  A Chartered Accountants' Firm was appointed by the learned Special Judge by an order dated 17.September.2003 to represent all notified entities in the family of late Harshad Mehta for the purpose of ascertaining their tax liabilities.
The assets of the Harshad Mehta Group are valued at Rs. 972 crores apart from the income tax dues whereas the aggregate amount of income tax dues exceed Rs. 13,800 crores.
The Custodian does not appear to have preferred claims before the Special Court on behalf of the largest lender on the so-called group against those he had to recover loans.
The appeal is accordingly dismissed but without any order as to costs.
(iii) The Appellants herein filed several Misc.
If those individuals, who had no connection with Harshad Mehta could not have been proceeded against for meeting the liabilities of Harshad Mehta jointly or severally, a clear finding was required to be arrived at.
" CONTENTIONS OF THE PARTIES Appellants 9.  Mr. Mahesh Jethmalani, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the Appellants in assailing the said judgment of the learned Special Court inter alia raised the following contentions: (i) Some of the entities having their asset base much more than actual liability, the impugned judgments are unsustainable.
29.  It is open to the Appellants, herein to show that even if they continued to be notified, the Custodian was not right in clubbing all the individual members of the family as a single entity styled as Harshad Mehta Group.
