24.  The court having charged the accused with the offence of having trespassed into the house of Prakashi Devi with intent to assault her and having further charged him for having assaulted the said Prakashi Devi by outraging her modesty, convicts him on the ground that though he did not assault or outrage the modesty of Prakashi Devi, he had outraged the modesty of Sheela Devi, that would lead to failure of justice.
The charge must also contain the particulars of date, time, place and person against whom the offence was committed, as are reasonably sufficient to give the accused notice of the matter with which he is charged.
In her cross-examination, Prakashi Devi stated that she has five sons; that only her husband and one son named Mahavir were staying with her; that the other four sons were married and were not staying with her; that on that night, her husband was away in the fields and her son Mahavir was also not present in the house.
He did not try to challenge the evidence let in to show that he had tried to outrage the modesty of Sheela Devi, as he was not charged with such an offence.
The Magistrate committed the case to Sessions Court which was specified as a special court under the Act.
There were two women present at the house at the time of the alleged incident, namely Prakashi Devi and her daughter-in-law Sheela Devi.
There was a material error in the charge as it violated the requirement of sub-s.
Both PW1 and PW2 stated that the house of the accused was at a distance of 15-16 houses from the house of Prakashi Devi; that the accused had never come into their house earlier; that their family and the accused were not on visiting terms with each other even during functions, marriages or death, though they were on visiting terms with others in the village.
The accused examined a witness Ex-Sarpanch of the village as DW-1 and he stated that there was a quarrel between the accused and complainant's son Surinder about a water course and subsequently he came to know that the quarrel was converted into a false case against the accused by registering a false allegation that the accused had outraged the modesty of a woman.
Applying the guidance offered by the said illustrations and the legal principles evolved by this Court, the position will be as follows : If Sheela Devi alone had been present at the house at the time of the incident and the accused had assaulted and outraged the modesty of the said Sheela Devi, but in the charge the name of the victim had been erroneously mentioned, say as Sushila Devi or Prakashi Devi (though there was no person by such name), and the inquiry exclusively referred to the assault and outraging the modesty of Sheela Devi, the court could infer that the accused was not misled and the error in the charge was immaterial.
In fact, the murdered person's name was Haidar Baksh, and the date of the murder was the 20th January, 1882.
If all these elements are there and no prejudice is shown the conviction must stand whatever the irregularities whether traceable to the charge or to a want of one." "In adjudging the question of prejudice the fact that the absence of a charge, or a substantial mistake in it, is a serious lacuna will naturally operate to the benefit of the accused and if there is any reasonable and substantial doubt about whether he was, or was reasonably likely to have been, misled in the circumstances of any particular case, he is as much entitled to the benefit of it here as elsewhere; but if, on a careful consideration of all the facts, prejudice, or a reasonable and substantial likelihood of it, is not disclosed the conviction must stand; also it will always be material to consider whether objection to the nature of the charge, or a total want of one, was taken at an early stage But these are matters of fact which will be special to each different case and no conclusion on these questions of fact in any one case can ever be regarded as a precedent or a guide for a conclusion of fact in another, because the facts can never be alike in any two cases however alike they may seem.
The accused was thus clearly misled by the error in the charge which caused prejudiced to the accused thereby occasioning failure of justice.
It inter alia provides that every charge under the Code shall state the offence with which the accused is charged.
14.  The following principles relating to sections 212, 215 and 464 of the Code, relevant to this case, become evident from the said enunciations: (i) The object of framing a charge is to enable an accused to have a clear idea of what he is being tried for and of the essential facts that he has to meet.
PW 2 also stated that she did not know the particulars of the dispute between the accused and her in-laws.
The said illustrations are extracted below : "(d) A is charged with the murder of Khoda Baksh on the 21st January, 1882.
However, if the aspect is of such a nature that non-explanation of it has contributed to penalizing an individual, the court should say that since he was not given the opportunity to explain that aspect there was failure of justice on account of non-compliance with the principle of natural justice.
In view of the specific charge, the accused concentrated on showing that the charge was false.
That matter was considered section 465 of the Code and not relevant on the facts of this case.
The police investigated into the said complaint and submitted a report section 173 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (for short 'the Code').
6.  One of the contentions urged by the accused before the appellate court and High Court was that the charge against him was that he attempted to outrage the modesty of Prakashi Devi (PW-1) whereas the evidence was to show that he attempted to outrage the modesty of her daughter-in-law Sheela Devi.
This was negatived by the appellate court and High Court holding that an accused cannot take advantage of a technical defect in framing the charge.
This Court held thus : "The crux of the matter is this : Would there be occasion for a failure of justice by adopting such a course as to convict an accused of the offence under section 304-B IPC when all the ingredients necessary for the said offence have come out in evidence, although he was not charged with the said offence? a conviction would be valid even if there is any omission or irregularity in the charge, provided it did not occasion a failure of justice....The criminal court, particularly the superior court should make a close examination to ascertain whether there was really a failure of justice or whether it is only a camouflage.
9.  In Willie (William) Slaney vs State of Madhya Pradesh [AIR 1956 SC 116 1955 Indlaw SC 80] this court explained the concepts of "prejudice to the accused" and "failure of justice" thus:- "(6) Before we proceed to set out our answer and examine the provisions of the Code, we will pause to observe that the Code is a code of procedure and, like all procedural laws, is designed to further the ends of justice and not to frustrate them by the introduction of endless technicalities.
