(2) of cl.
The AICTE sent a communication on 30.4.1995 stating that on the basis of the observations made by the Expert Committee and the recommendations made by the Central Regional Committee, State Level Committee and Central Task Force as per the provisions of the AICTE regulation dated 30.1.1994, the AICTE was granting conditional approval for establishing an Engineering and Technical College.
If more approvals were granted, it might lead to commercialisation of education.
The Government was also directed to reconsider its decision.
" 15.   Regulation 4 deals with the requirement of grant of approval and for the commencement of these regulations "(a)............................. (b) no course or programme shall be introduced in any technical institutions, university or deemed university or university departments or college; or (c) no technical institutions, Universities or deemed Universities or University Departments or colleges shall continue to admit students for degree or diploma courses or programmes; (d) no approved intake capacity of seats shall be increased or varied : except with the approval of the Council.
Appeal allowed
8 & 9 of Regulation 8 are important and read as follows : "Reg.
The State in its letter dated 16.8.96 to the appellant merely stated "that government regret their inability to comply with your request".
(m) lay down norms for granting autonomy, subcl.
18.   Sub-cls.
There were also two unaided Engineering Colleges at Mallappuram and Thiruvananthapuram.
section 11 of the Act deals with inspection.
There is no power vested in the State under any State Law to grant approval and even if it was so vested, it would have been void in view of Tamil Nadu case.
9(7) of the statute required that before the University took a decision on "affiliation", it had to ascertain the "views" of the State Government.
The appellant had sent a reminder on 26.8.95.
The abovesaid approval was subject to the fulfilment of specific conditions mentioned in Annexure I and the general conditions mentioned in Annexure II to the said letter.
7 with other matters.
Therefore, this special leave petition is dismissed as premature.
Thus, the State law under Entry 23 of List III would be repugnant to any law made by the Parliament under Entry 66 of List I, to the extent of inconsistency.
Such repugnancy would have to be adjudged on the basis of the tests which are applied for adjudging repugnancy article 254 of the Constitution" .
Later on, these permissions were withdrawn by the State after issuing show cause on 16.7.89.
Para 4 of the Counter affidavit had further stated that the Government was not "in a position to take a decision to start new Engineering college without properly assessing the necessity of more engineering gradu-ates in the State and exploring the possibility of employment oppor-tunity in the country to the extent possible" .
We have already referred to these details.
The University also granted permission on 21.11.87 for the academic year 1987-88.
1995 Indlaw SC 1631 But, in the context of section 10(K) regarding 'approval' for starting a technical institution, certain aspects of the judgment need to be highlighted.
11.   The abovesaid Act was an act to provide for the establishment of All India Council for Technical Education with a view to the proper planning and coordinated development of the technical education system throughout the country, the promotion of qualitative improvement of such education in relation to planned quantitative growth and the regulation and proper maintenance of norms and standards in the technical education system and for matters connected therewith.
12.  U/s.
22.  The said judgments were affirmed by this Court.
There is a prelimi-nary scrutiny of the applications by the Bureau RC of the Council.
49.  We find that the petitioner has already filed a Writ Petition in the Delhi High Court namely CWP No. 952 of 1998 and the same is pending.
Point 1 is decided accordingly.
34.  The State Government in its counter then gave the names of the existing colleges and their location.
There will be no order as to costs.
46.  For the aforesaid reasons, we set aside the judgment of the Division Bench of the High Court and uphold the reasoning of the learned Single Judge in his judgment in OP 4612/96 dated 14.1.1997.
That could not be characterised as requiring the "approval' of the State Government.
(u) to set up a National Board of Accreditation.
Regulation 8 deals with scrutiny of applications.
The Tamil Nadu case : 20.  As stated earlier, the above provisions of the AICTE Act, came up for consideration in State of Tamil Nadu v. Adhiyaman Educational & Research Institute, [1995] 4 SCC 104 1995 Indlaw SC 1631.
Leave granted.
" 24.   This Court then referred to the Madras University Act, 1923.
In Thirwnuruga Kirupan and Variyar Thavathiru Sundara Swamigal Medical Education & Charitable Trust v. State of Tamil Nadu & Others, [1996] 3 SCC 15 1996 Indlaw SC 858, which was a case relating to Medical Education and which also related to the effect of a Central Law upon a law made by the State under Entry 25 List III, it was held that the "essentiality certificate cannot be withheld by the State Government on any policy consideration because the policy in the matter of establishment of a new medical college now vests with the Central Government alone".
It is, therefore, not under-standable how the Director had given a contrary opinion to the State Government.
These were sufficient safeguards for ascertaining the views of the State Governments and the Universities.
(s) to declare technical institutions as fit to receive grants, cl.
We are not inclined to agree.
According to the learned senior counsel it was indeed not necessary for the appellant to have applied to the State Government for any further sanction to establish the college.
The University had granted conditional approval, as stated earlier.
21.   In the above matter, the State of Tamil Nadu granted permission on 17.4.84 to all private managements to start private Engineering colleges without financial commitment to government but subject to conditions.
44.  Reliance for the respondent was placed upon the subsequent report of the Syndicate dated 7.8.97.
(1) permits the Council to advice the Central Government in certain respects, sub-cl.
M. JAGANNADHA RAO, J. 48.  The petitioner was not a party in the High Court of Kerala and this Special Leave Petition was filed with leave of this Court.
Under the impression that the State Govt.
The Commission was to inspect the site, verify the title deeds as regards the proprietary right of the management over the land (and buildings, if any) offered, building accommodation provided, if any, assets of the management, constitution of the registered body and all other relevant matters, Sub-cl.
No reasons were assigned in the said letter.
" 17.   Sub-cl. 5 of Regulation 8 requires the Regional Office to arrange visits by an Expert Committee constituted by the Council which is to forward its recommendations to the Council.
Obtaining the 'views' of the State Government, as already stated, did not amount to obtaining its 'approval'.
It also observed that there was widespread student prospects against starting new colleges and it was necessary to be cautious in the matter of starting new engineering colleges.
31.   As held in the Tamil Nadu case, the Central Act of 1987 and in particular, section 10(k) occupied the field relating the 'grant of approvals' for establishing technical institutions and the provisions of the Central Act alone were to be complied with.
Meanwhile, the Mahatama Gandhi University by their letter dated 31.5.1995 forwarded to the Government a list of Colleges and Courses for affiliation during the academic year 1995-96.
(r) to strengthen the existing organisa-tions etc., cl.
The Model Engineering College, Emakulam was a selffinancing Engineering College and others were the colleges at Changannur and Pathansamthitta and there was a self-financing engineering college at Kasargode.
40.  The so called 'policy' of the State as mentioned in the counter affidavit filed in the High Court was not a ground for refusing approval.
It was held that section 10 of the Central Act dealt with various matters (including granting approval for starting new technical institutions), and that so far as these matters were concerned.
If, indeed, the University statute could be so inter-preted, such a provision requiring approval of the State Government would be repugnant to the provisions of section 10(k) of the AICTE Act, 1987 and would again be void.
The AICTE had consulted the State of Kerala as well as the Mahatama Gandhi University.
So did the University on 26.7.89.
Even though the appellant trust was not seeking aid from the Government and even assuming that it was financially self-sufficient, it would not be in the interests of the students & employment, to permit new engineering colleges to be established.  Thus the Government policy was not to grant fresh approvals.
3 deals with the power of admissions and sub-cl. 4 with tuition fees etc.
To that extent, after the coming into force of the Central Act, the provisions of the University Act will be deemed to have become unenforceable" .
(o) to provide guidelines for admission of students to technical institutions and Universities imparting technical education, cl.
(q) to withhold or discontinue grant, cl.
The State Level Committee and the Central Regional Committees contained various experts and State representatives.
It was held that the AICTE Act was referable to Entry 66, List I of the Constitution of India, relating to "coordination and determination of standards in institutions for higher education or research and scientific and technical institutions".
5.   Against the said judgment of the learned Single Judge the Commis-sioner and Secretary of the Government (Higher Education Department) filed Writ Appeal No. 1024 of 1997.
39.  In case, there was difference between the State Government, University or the Regional Committee the Central Task Force was to make a final recommen-dation under Regulation 8(4).
The learned Single Judge and the Division Bench held in favour of the Trust and quashed and orders of the Government and the University.
In case affiliation is granted, the fact shall be reported to the Senate at its next meet-ing :" 30.   It will be noticed that cl.
It will be for the petitioner to have the said matter disposed of by the High Court of Delhi.
But the State in its counter filed in the High Court tried to explain that the Director of Technical Education had opined that during the year 1995-96, it might not be practicable to start the college for the Director could not ascertain the details of the facilities available.
It might be that under the relevant statutes of the University, the University was required to obtain the "views" of the State Government but that did not amount to requiring any approval of the State Government and indeed if any such statute required the approval of the state Government, it would be void in view of what was stated by this Court in State of Tamil Nadu & Another v. Adhiyaman Educational & Research Institute & Others,[l995] 4 SCC 104.
45.  Thus, the University ought to have considered the grant of final or further affiliation without waiting for any approval from the State Govern-ment and should have acted on the basis of the permission granted by AICTE and other relevant factors in the University Act or statutes, which are not inconsistent with the AICTE Act or its Regulations.
38.  The AICTE's approval dated 30.4.95 showed that the approval had been given by the State Level Com-mittee of which they were obviously members.
9(7) of the Kerala University First Statute.
8(8) If there is a disagreement in the recommendations made by the State Government, University or the Regional Committee, the Central Task Force shall invite representatives of the respective agencies for further consultations before making final recommenda-tion; (9) On the recommendation of the Central Task Force, the Council shall decide the question of grant of approval as sought for in the application : Provided that the Council may, for reasons to be communicated to the applicant, allow the approval with such restrictions or modifications as it may deem necessary.
