Sub-s.
[Misc.
Allegedly, therein it was shown that the individuals had received large loans, advances, credits from the Harshad Mehta Group and there had been intermingling of the assets to the tune of crores of rupees.
The flats, however, during pendency of these appeals have been sold in auction.
The priority, however, which is given under section 11(2)(a) to such tax liability only covers such liability for the period 1-4-1991 to 6-6-1992.
SALE OF COMMERCIAL PROPERTIES 42.  Sale of commercial properties has never been seriously contested by the Appellants.
A corporate veil indisputably can be lifted on several grounds.
Petition No. 41 of 1999.
The parties shall file their respective documents within one week thereafter.
In the context of section 11(2), therefore, "the taxes due" refer to "taxes as finally assessed".
ISSUES (i) Whether the Appellants being not involved in offences in transactions in securities could have been proceeded against in terms of the provisions of the Act.
Alternatively, it was prayed that since their asset base was greater than genuine liabilities, the said residential premises should be released from attachment.
[See Zain-ul-Abdin Khan v. Muhammad Asghar Ali Khan - 15 IA 12 1887 Indlaw PC 13].
18.  In Tejkumar Balakrishna Ruia v. A.K. Menon and Another [(1997) 9 SCC 123] 1996 Indlaw SC 2403, this Court held: "In our view, the terms of sub-s.
This Court, it is trite, can take into consideration the subsequent events.
In L.S. Synthetics Ltd. 2004 Indlaw SC 715 (supra), this Court observed: "A statute of limitation bars a remedy and not a right.
Application Nos.
The parties have also filed several charts before us showing individual assets and liabilities.
31.  A sur-rejoinder thereto was filed on 15.October.2003 and in paragraphs 1 to 6 thereof, the said statements were denied and disputed.
section 5 provides for establishment of the Special Court.
The said irregularities and malpractices led to the diversion of funds from banks and financial institutions to the individual accounts of certain brokers.
(3) would have stated that such property would stand attached the moment it was acquired by the notified person.
The Custodian may also take assistance and/ or further assistance from a Chartered Accountant of his choice.
Before us a chart has been produced by the Appellants herein as regards Mrs. Deepika Mehta to show her liabilities payable as on 8th June, 1992 which are as under: "Chart showing comparison of payables as on 8th June, 1992 We, therefore, have not been given a clear picture as to the correctness or otherwise of the affidavit filed by the Custodian vis-a-vis the Books of Accounts which have been maintained by the Appellants themselves as well as the Auditor's Report.
So long, such orders of assessment are not passed by the competent assessing authorities, it cannot be said that the Appellants are liable to pay a huge amount by way of income tax dues on the basis of such orders of assessment which have since been set aside.
Reliance in this behalf has been placed on B.C. Dalal 2005 Indlaw SC 1826 v. Custodian [Civil Appeal No. 2795 of 2004] and The Kedarnath Jute Mfg. Co. Ltd. v. The Commissioner of Income Tax, (Central), Calcutta [(1972) 3 SCC 252] 1971 Indlaw SC 841.
The intent and purport of Parliament enacting the said Act furthermore must be given its full effect.
With the aforementioned observations and directions, these appeals are allowed.
The Special Court has full discretion under section 11(2)(c) to decide whether such claim for penalty or interest should be paid out of any surplus funds in the hands of the Custodian.
Even in this behalf, it was necessary for the Special Judge to assign sufficient and cogent reasons.
47.  In Padanathil Ruqmini Amma v. P.K. Abdulla [(1996) 7 SCC 668] 1996 Indlaw SC 3096, this Court making a distinction between decree-holder auction purchaser himself and a third party bona fide purchaser in an auction sale, observed : "The ratio behind this distinction between a sale to a decree-holder and a sale to a stranger is that the court, as a matter of policy, will protect honest outsider purchasers at sales held in the execution of its decrees, although the sales may be subsequently set aside, when such purchasers are not parties to the suit.
Let it be done within two weeks.
(viii) The learned Judge, Special Court shall allow the parties to make brief oral submissions with pointed reference to their written submissions.
Further contention of the Custodian is that even Dr. Hitesh Mehta and Dr. Pratima Mehta have admitted that they had no knowledge about the transactions.
However, out of the said 29 entitles, only Late Harshad Mehta and two of his younger brothers were cited as accused in various criminal cases filed against them.
37.  The learned Special Court, having not arrived at such a finding, this Court is not in a position to go into the correctness or otherwise thereabout.
We, therefore, as at present advised, refrain ourselves from adverting to the said question.
(2) of section 3 has been entered into fraudulently or to defeat the provisions of this Act, he may cancel such contract or agreement and on such cancellation such property shall stand attached under this Act; Provided that no contract or agreement shall be cancelled except after giving to the parties to the contract or agreement a reasonable opportunity of being heard.
46.  In Janak Raj v. Gurdial Singh and Anr.
The said decision has been affirmed by this Court in Gurjoginder Singh v. Jaswant Kaur (Smt.) and Another [(1994) 2 SCC 368] 1994 Indlaw SC 1613.
It does not appear that claims inter se between the entities within the so-called group had ever been taken into consideration.
(vii) Furthermore, the Appellants are also unable to maintain their residential properties as the Custodian had to pay a sum of Rs. 1.06 crores towards the maintenance of the said residential properties.
The process of finalizing the bids according to law may be proceeded ahead by the Special Court.
(iii) Whether the tax liabilities could not have been held to be due as the order of assessments did not become final and binding.
(3) of section 3 are clear.
However, by an order dated 14.July.2000, the said applications were permitted to be withdrawn with a permission to re-file the same.
" 41.  In view of the aforementioned pronouncement of law, we are of the opinion that it is absolutely necessary to request the learned Special Court to consider the matter afresh.
His death has also forced upon him bankruptcy.
A special statute providing for special or no period of limitation must receive a liberal and broader construction and not a rigid or a narrow one.
Although a remedy is barred, a defence can be raised.
BACKGROUND FACTS 2.  The Appellants herein who are related to one Harshad section Mehta (since deceased) purchased nine residential flats in a building called Madhuli Apartments in Worli area of Mumbai.
Petition No. 64 of 1998, disposed of on 17th August, 2000] wherein allegedly a dichotomy between sale and distribution was sought to be resolved in terms of the decision of this Court in Harshad Shantilal Mehta 1998 Indlaw SC 732 (supra), the appeal where against being Civil Appeal No. 5812 of 2000 was dismissed by this Court by an order dated 4.December.2000 stating that it was in agreement with the decision of the Special Court which called for no interference.
The family of the Appellants consists of four brothers, their wives, children and their widowed mother.
But for such protection, the properties which are sold in court auctions would not fetch a proper price and the decree-holder himself would suffer.
Three firms of Chartered Accountants were appointed to prepare statement of accounts and liabilities of each of the Appellants, herein.
(3) of section 3 should be literally construed and so construed, all properties belonging to the notified person shall be subject to attachment which may, consequently, be applied for discharge of his liabilities in terms of section 11 of the said Act.
Such documents should be supported by affidavits.
PROCEEDINGS BEFORE THE SPECIAL COURT 5.  Before the learned Special Court, the parties herein filed several applications which can be sub-divided in three categories, as would be noticed shortly hereinafter.
There was no occasion for the Custodian to club all the notified entities in one block so as to be termed as Harshad Mehta Group and/or to club their assets and liabilities jointly.
The said letter was replied by the Custodian by his letter dated 10.October.2003 wherein none of the queries contained in paragraphs 3 to 8 of the said letter was even attempted to be answered.
Such hearing in the peculiar facts and circumstances of this case should continue from day to day.
(iv) The learned Special Court shall proceed to pass appropriate orders as regard confirmation of the auction sales in respect of commercial properties.
(vii) A copy of the Auditor's Report having only been supplied during pendency of these appeals, the learned Special Judge committed a serious error in passing the impugned judgment relying on or on the basis thereof.
As the Appellants have been represented in all the proceedings jointly, only one of them would be nominated by them to have the inspection thereof.
The said contention must be properly adjudged.
While a purposive interpretation is permissible where two interpretations are possible, the purposive interpretation must be such as preserves the constitutionality of the provision.
Subsequent to the filing of the present appeal in a large number of cases the revenue demands have been set aside.
It is interesting to note that the properties belonging to the mother of Harshad Mehta has since been released from attachment.
" 16.  The ratio of the said decision as regard applicability of the Limitation Act was further considered by a Division bench of this Court in Fairgrowth Investments Ltd. v. Custodian [(2004) 11 SCC 472] 2004 Indlaw SC 868 wherein it was held that section 5 of the Limitation Act will have no application in relation to an application falling under Sub-s.
Therefore, all the properties belonging to them stand attached.
Then, on account of his property being attached, he may not be in a position to deposit the tax assessed or file appeals or further proceedings under the relevant tax law which he could have otherwise done.
(iii) the estimated value of the immovable properties of this group is Rs. 184,030,038.
Such claims may also be preferred.
A finding of fact arrived at upon discussing and analyzing the respective contentions could have gone a long way in assisting this Court in arriving at a correct conclusion.
The Special Court can, for this purpose, examine whether there is any fraud, collusion or miscarriage of justice in assessment proceedings.
According to the Appellants, the Custodian has under-estimated the assets and exaggerated and overstated their liabilities.
[See Bombay Dyeing & Manufacturing Co. Ltd. v. The State of Bombay and others, AIR 1958 SC 338, Savitra Khandu Beradi v. Nagar Agricultural Sale and Purchase Co-operative Society Ltd. Ahmednagar and others [AIR 1957 Bom 178] 1957 Indlaw MUM 110 and Hari Raj Singh v. Sanchalak Panchayat Raj U.P. Govt.
However, the finalization shall be subject to the result of these appeals.
In any event, it is for Parliament to enact a law that meets all contingencies.
In the light of the directions issued herein, it would be for the purchasers of the said flats to wait till a final decision is made or take back the amount deposited by them, subject to any other or further order (s) that may be passed by the learned Special Judge.
section 7 confers exclusive jurisdiction upon the Special Court.
This Court, therefore, has laid down a law that mere filing of an appeal is not sufficient, particularly, when there is no order of stay on recovery has been granted and the demand is outstanding.
He is a party to the litigation and is very much aware of the vicissitudes of litigation and needs no protection.
(iii) Credits not given for relief obtained from Income Tax.
A triable issue had been raised and the Custodian's petition should have been converted into a suit.
The courts must interpret the law as it reads.
The words "on and from the date of notification" indicate the point of time at which the attachment takes effect; this is reiterated by the words "shall stand attached simultaneously with the issue of the notification".
(ii) liabilities have been shown in relation to unperformed contracts.
As regards liabilities of Harshad Mehta, the Appellants contended that since his expiry in the year 2001 his legal interests are not being defended both in the court as well as before the revenue, as a result, liabilities have been foisted upon him a large part which is on account of interest and penalties.
In these appeals, we are not concerned with the said flat.
A large number of commercial properties having already been sold and third party rights having been created, this Court should not interfere with the impugned judgment.
They have not been heard.
In the Ordinance which preceded the Act, there was no provision for giving post facto hearing to a notified person for cancellation of notification, but such a provision has been made in the Act, as would appear from section 4(2) thereof.
In case no such undertakings are filed by the adult members as directed above, within the aforesaid period, the custodian shall stand appointed as receiver of the flats which are described in Exh. 8 and Exh. 8-1 to Misc.
A transaction of Benami indisputably can be a subject matter of a lies in terms of section 4(1) of the Act as and when such a question is raised, the same may have to be dealt with by the Special Court appropriately.
The learned Special Court, in the impugned order, stated: (i) the grand total of the admitted liability, thus, comes to Rs. 7,279,127,317.15.
30.  The learned Special Court, despite, such a contention having been raised by the Appellants in their affidavit in reply did not advert thereto.
23.  The question, however, before us is as to whether any contention which may not have a direct bearing with the question as to whether the Special Court could entertain their applications for de-notifications could be raised by way of defence.
" 24.  Although, we do not intend to enter into the correctness or otherwise of the said contention of the Appellants at this stage, however, there cannot be any doubt whatsoever that they being notified persons, all their properties would be deemed to be automatically attached as a consequent thereto.
40.  In Board of Control for Cricket in India and Another v. Netaji Cricket Club and Others [(2005) 4 SCC 741] 2005 Indlaw SC 1243, this Court held: "It is also not correct to contend that the Court while exercising its review jurisdiction in any situation whatsoever cannot take into consideration a subsequent event.
Secondly payment in full may or may not be made by the Special Court depending upon various circumstances.
Since the appellant's petition of objection had been filed much beyond the period prescribed under that section, the Special Court was right in rejecting the petition in limine.
(iv) Thus, the total value of the assets as per the affidavit filed on behalf of the Custodian of Harshad Mehta Group is Rs. 9,727,332,166.94.
This Court also in its order dated 5th May, 2004 clarified that the interim order dated 30th January, 2004 shall not be applicable as regard sale of commercial properties as even before this Court the same had not been questioned.
The Appellants, however, raised the following contentions: (i) That the statement prepared by the Custodian and Exhibited as 'C' to his affidavit in rejoinder dated 1.October.2003 was based on material, at least, all of which were not connected to the Appellants as were pointed out before the Court.
This was not done.
Application No. 41 of 1999 seeking permission of the Special Court for sale of residential premises commonly known as Madhuli of eight notified entities.
But, at the stage when liabilities are required to be discharged, the notified person may inter alia raise a contention inter alia for the purpose of establishing that the properties held and possessed by them are sufficient to meet their liabilities.
For the said purpose, it is not necessary that they should be accused of commission of an offence as such.
The intention to attach property which did not belong to the notified person on the date of the notification but which he might acquire later would, had it been there, have been clearly expressed and sub-s.
Furthermore, the orders of the appellate authority have been passed during pendency of this appeal.
(iii) The liabilities of Harshad Mehta, who was a sui generis, could have been recovered from the properties held and possessed by him or from the companies floated by him but not from the individual entities; at least two of whom being medical practitioners have their income from other sources.
It also provides for appointment of one or more custodians for attaching the property of the offenders with a view to prevent diversion of such properties by the offenders.
