She further stated that it will be correct to say that her daughter was receiving ill-treatment as a result of "domestic cause".
PW. 1 Tukaram, father of the deceased, has given details of the prosecution version of the incident in his statement in Court.
Since an essential ingredient of Section 304-B IPC viz. demand for dowry is not established, the conviction of the appellants cannot be sustained.
He also admitted that he had not gone to attend that funeral of Bhimabai.
A few days before Nag Panchami festival Bhimabai came to her parental home and complained that the accused were not giving her proper food, clothing and even footwear.
In her cross-examination, PW.5 Sumanbai has stated that after news about the condition of Bhimabai was given by a man from village Palshi, she along with her husband and some other relations went there and noticed that Bhimabai was lying dead in the house and froth was coming out of her mouth.
In his examination-in-chief PW.1 has said that whenever his daughter came to her parental home, she used to complain that she was being subjected to harassment by the appellants on account of some "domestic reasons" and further that her husband (appellant no.1) had told her that while coming back from her parental home she should bring Rs. 1,000-1,200 for expenses and for manure as he had no sufficient money.
On the basis of the said accidental death report, PW.6 Sandeepan Kamble, Police Sub-Inspector, visited the house of the accused, held inquest on the dead body of Bhimabai, and thereafter sent the same for post-mortem examination.
We have heard learned counsel for the appellants, learned counsel for the State of Maharashtra and have perused the records.
Therefore, we have refrained from expressing any opinion as to whether the appellants could be held guilty of having committed the offence under Section 498-A or 306 IPC on the basis of evidence available on record as their acquittal under the aforesaid charges has attained finality and cannot be reversed in the appeal filed by the appellants challenging their conviction under Section 304-B IPC.
He saw that Bhimabai was lying dead and froth was coming out of her mouth which was smelling of Thimet (insecticide).
She has further stated that she did not make any enquiry as to how Bhimabai had died.
PW.1 Tukaram lodged the FIR of the incident at 7.00 p.m. on 16 September 1991 at P.S. Chikalthana, on the basis of which Case Crime No. 144 of 1991 was registered against the appellants under Sections 498-A, 306 and 304-B IPC.
P.C. Accepting the statements of father and mother on their face value that utmost which can be held is that the appellant no.1 had asked his wife Bhimabai to bring money for meeting domestic expenses and for purchasing manure.
The appellant No. 2, Kadubai is the mother of the appellant No. 1 and both the appellants were residing in the same house in village Palshi.
The sureties and bail bonds furnished by her are discharged.
The appellant no.1 is in custody.
The judgment and order dated 23 February 2005 of the High Court and the judgment and order dated 04 January 1993 of the learned Sessions Judge convicting the appellants under Section 304-B IPC are set aside and the appellants are acquitted of the said charge.
In view of the discussion made above, the appeal is allowed.
The appeal before the High Court and also in this Court has been preferred by the appellants challenging their conviction under section 304-B read with section 34 IPC.
As already stated, the appellants were also charged under Sections 498-A and 306 read with Section 34 IPC but were acquitted of the said charges by the learned Sessions Judge, which order has attained finality for the reason that the State did not prefer appeal against the same.
It has thus been submitted that no offence under Section 306 IPC is made out against the appellants.
Learned counsel for the appellants has also submitted that there is absolutely no evidence either direct or circumstantial to show that Bhimabai committed suicide.
The evidence adduced by the prosecution does not, therefore, show that any demand for "dowry" as defined in Section 2 of the Dowry Prohibition Act was made by the appellants as what was allegedly asked for was some money for meeting domestic expenses and for purchasing manure.
Dowry is a fairly well known social custom or practice in India.
Therefore, the giving or taking of property or valuable security must have some connection with the marriage of the parties and a correlation between the giving or taking of property or valuable security with the marriage of the parties is essential.
Definition of "dowry" - In this Act "dowry" means any property or valuable security given or agreed to be given either directly or indirectly- (a) by one party to a marriage to the other party to the marriage; or (b) by the parent of either party to a marriage or by any other person, to either party to the marriage or to any other person, at or before or any time after the marriage in connection with the marriage of the said parties, but does not include dowry or mahr in the case of persons to whom the Muslim Personal Law (shariat) applies.
The explanation appended to sub-section (1) of Section 304-B IPC says that "dowry" shall have the same meaning as in Section 2 of Dowry Prohibition Act, 1961.
The evidence on record does not indicate that the police had any reason to favour the accused and deliberately omitted to mention about the alleged demand of money while recording the statement of PW.5 Sumanbai under Section 161 Cr.
It is important to note that in her statement under Section 161 Cr.P.C. which was recorded on the very next day of the death of Bhimabai, this witness did not state that the cause for ill-treatment was "a demand for money and a consequent beating".
PW.5 Sumanbai has deposed that Bhimabai was receiving ill-treatment as a result of "domestic cause" and to a specific question put by the Court as to what she meant by "domestic cause" she gave a reply that there was a demand for money for defraying expenses of manure etc.
The main witnesses regarding the alleged demand of money and also harassment and beating to Bhimabai are her father and mother, viz., PW.1 Tukaram and PW.5 Sumanbai.
He has further deposed that Bhimabai had come to his house about six months earlier and had said all was not well between her and her husband, but she had not given any specific details.
