During the pendency of the aforesaid appeal the State of West Bengal requisitioned large extent of fisheries including the disputed Nalban Fishery on 5.11.1969 in exercise of power under Section 3(1) of the West Bengal Land Requisition and Acquisition Act of 1948 (hereinafter referred to as 'the Requisition Act').
In our considered opinion the succeeding Receiver rightly took into account the directions of this Court passed on 18.4.1979 and 24.4.1979 and rightly took the view that the rights and interest of the State in relation to Nalban Fishery is not affected in any manner by the so-called allotment of the fishery in the partition decree amongst the members of the Sarkar family.
The learned counsel also urged that in any view of the matter, on the amendment of the West Bengal Land Reforms Act in the year 1936 giving it retrospective effect and defining land to include tank - fishery the Nalban Fishery vests in the State of West Bengal and, therefore, the High Court could not have issued the impugned direction.
11.  The next question that arises for consideration is whether the Receiver appointed by this Court was at all entitled to take possession of the Nalban Fishery pursuant to the Order of this Court or the Nalban Fishery could not have been taken possession by the Receiver and, therefore, the second Receiver rightly corrected the mistake committed by his predecessor.
The said Receiver was not aware of the fact that Nalban Fishery had in fact requisitioned by the State of West Bengal and the State is in possession of the same since November, 1369.
The subsequent incumbent to the post of District Magistrate 24 Parganas, who became the Receiver by virtue of his official position had no further jurisdiction to re-deliver possession of the Nalban Fishery to the State of West Bengal and the comments already made by the High Court on the report of the subsequent Receiver sufficiently indicate how he had acted with the bias mind and consequently the Nalban Fishery having not vested in the State of West Bengal under the Acquisition Act, the decree passed by the Supreme Court on 18.4.1979 remains operative.
We would further observe that the State should determine the amount of compensation which the Sarkar family is entitled to under the relevant provisions of the Act under which Nalban Fishery vests with the State of West Bengal and the compensation amount be paid on being determined in accordance with the law to the family members of Sarkar family in whose favour Nalban Fishery had been allotted under the compromise decree by this Court.
7.  Mr. Jaideep Gupta, learned counsel appearing for the respondents on the other hand condented that the decree passed by the Supreme Court in the partition suit amongst the members of the Sarkar family on the basis of a compromise arrived at between the parties would bind the State of West Bengal as the decree has been passed in presence of the State who was impleaded as a party.
The aforesaid order cannot be held to operate as res judicata taking away the rights of the State of West Bengal in respect of the Nalban Fishery as the State was not a party to the proceedings.
Obviously, the earlier compliance report dated 20.11.1978 that the Receiver has taken possession of the Nalban Fishery was a symbolic one inasmuch as the State of West Bengal was in fact in possession of the said fishery.
The Nalban Fishery was one of the items of property in the suit for partition is not disputed.
From the report submitted by the Receiver it transpired that the District Magistrate 24 Parganas who was appointed as Receiver took possession of several fisheries including Nalban Fishery Obviously on the impression that the lease in respect of the said fishery which had been granted by the SarKar family had lapsed.
Mr. Gupta also contended that the Receiver assumed possession of the fisheries pursuant to the order of the Supreme Court dated 6th of November, 1978 and having submitted a report to that effect on 22.11.1978 indicating that it has taken possession of the Nalban Fishery.
The Court had also further directed that the Collector will be the Receiver in respect of the fisheries which has not already been vested in the State and whose Possession has not already been taken over by the State.
It was further contended that this Court while giving affect to the compromise arrived at between the Sarkar family made it explicitely clear that the said compromise will not in any way affect the rights of the State over the fisheries even if those fisheries agreed to be divided between the parties and in that view of the matter and the State of West Bengal having already requisitioned the Nalban Fishery and having taken possession of the same the Receiver could not have taken possession of the said Nalban Fishery pursuant to the order of this Court appointing the Collector 24 Parganas as Receiver and under the circumstances the said Receiver rightly intimated this Court about the mistake committed by him and re-delivered possession of Nalban fishery to the State of West Bengal.
On 25.5.1979 the Collector 24 Parganas who had been appointed as Receiver realised that he could not have taken possession of Nalban Fishery as Receiver since the said fishery had already been in possession of the State of West Bengal pursuant to requisition order dated 5.11.1969.
Since we have been informed that the writ petition challenging the amended Act is still pending in the Calcutta High Court we may observe that our conclusion hereunder in relation to applicability of the amended provisions of the West Bengal Land Reforms Act, so far as Nalban Fishery is concerned, would be subject to the constitutionality itself to be decided by the High Court in the pending writ petition.
By virtue of the extended definition of 'land' in Section 2 (7) and the amended provisions of Section 3(A) of the Land Reforms Act, tank fishery, like Nalban Fishery come within the definition of and it vests in the State by operation of Section 3(1) read with Section 14.
In view of our earlier conclusion that the rights and interest of the State of West Bengal was not in any way be affected by the so-called partition and allotment of the Nalban Fishery inter se amongst the members of the Sarkar family, the said order dated 63.10.1980 passed by the learned Single Judge of the Calcutta High Court will not stand on the way of the State in claiming and putting forth its interest and right over the Nalban Fishery.
After such demarcation is made the Commissioner of Partition is directed to approve the same and carry out the direction of the Honble Supreme Court in respect thereof." does not in any way take away rights of the State of West Bengal which is otherwise protected by the Supreme Court while passing the compromise decree.
12.  We do not find any force in the contention of Mr. Gupta appearing for the respondents that the succeeding Receiver had no jurisdiction to re-deliver the possession of Nalban Fishery is the State of West Bengal when his predecessor has already taken possession of the same pursuant to the order of this Court.
The possession - thus taken by the Receiver of the vast extent tank fishery is obviously a symbolical possession but in view of the order of this Court dated 18.4.1979 as well as 22.4.1979 while passing a decree in terms of compromise arrived at between the parties and on the admitted position that State had already come into possession of the fishery by virtue of the order under the Requisition Act, the said fishery remained out of the purview of the allotment made by the Sarkar family in the compromise and, therefore, the Receiver could not have taken possession of the same.
The dismissal of the special leave petition as aforesaid affirmed that the Nalban Fishery had been legally requisitioned by the State of West Bengal and the State was in possession of the same since 8.11.1969.
The Nalban Fishery had been requisitioned by the State of West Bengal in exercise of power under Section 3(1) of the West Bengal Land Requisition and Acquisition Act is not disputed and cannot be disputed and since the validity of the said order of requisition had been challenged by the Sarkar family in the Calcutta High Court and being unsuccessful there, they had also filed special leave petition in this Court in SLP (C) No. 1452/72 which was ultimately dismissed by this Court on 17.11.1972.
" 9.  Further while directing the Receiver to handover possession of the various fisheries covered by the final decree to the parties to whom they have been allotted under the decree, this Court also protected the interest of the State by observing: "We made it quite clear that this will not in any manner prejudice or affect the right of the State to its claim over the fisheries under the West Bengal Acquisition Act 1955 (West Bengal Act 1 of 1954) or under any other statute.
The aforesaid order directing impleadment of the State of West Bengal as a 7 party was obviously intended for the purpose that the interest of the State and the rights of the State in relation of the State and the rights of the State in relation of the State and the rights of the State in relation to several fisheries could be protected.
