vs Krishnoji Bhaurao Hundre (Dead) By Lrs.
Even assuming that the High Court was not justified in setting aside the concurrent findings of fact in the exercise of its revisional jurisdiction under Section 121A of the Act, then also, we are of the view that it is not a fit case where this Court should interfere with the impugned judgment of the High Court in the exercise of our power article 136 of the Constitution.
vs Rasul Mohammed Abdul Rahim [1963 (3) SCR 1 1962 Indlaw SC 366] need not be discussed.
vs Ram Samsthan Beladhadi [(1999) 1 SCC 74].
So far as Krishtappa Yellapa Pujar & Ors.
He has not produced any Geni receipts or any Lease Agreement to show that the 5th respondent has leased out the land in dispute in his favour on crop share basis and that he paid the Geni to the 5th respondent.
Appeal dismissed.
[(2000) 1 SCC 518] 1999 Indlaw SC 941 is concerned, it is difficult to conceive how this decision could be of any help to the appellants.
1998 Indlaw SC 1197 In our view, so far as the decision in the case of Mohan Balaku Patil & Ors.
Thus the R.T.C. extracts produced by him do not support his contention that he was cultivating the land in dispute as a tenant.
vs Gangadhar Narsingdas Aggarwal & Anr.
19.
Accordingly, the appellants prayed for an order of occupancy right in respect of the scheduled land alleging that they and their father were cultivating the scheduled land as occupancy right holders relying, inter alia, on the entries under the RTC record.
25.  Again in Jai Mangal Oraon vs Mira Nayak (Smt.) & Ors.
10.
20.
Even in respect of the said claim, he failed to produce any documentary evidence evidencing the said lease of land in dispute from Gundu Rao.
In support of his contention, he had relied on a decision of this Court in the case of Dahya Lal & Ors.
22.
4.
Though there is no evidence on record to show that there are any joint family properties belonging to the joint family of respondent No. 5 and his uncle, there is nothing on record to show that they are not living as members of the joint family.
The case of tenancy as made out by the appellants or their father was denied.
6.  We have heard Mr. Raju, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the appellants and Mr. section N. Bhat, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondents.
5.  Feeling aggrieved, the respondent No. 4 filed an appeal before the Appellate Authority, which was also dismissed.
To prove this fact, he relied upon the entries in the R.T.C. extract for the years 1968 to 1974 wherein his name is shown as the person in cultivation of the land in dispute.
Except the interested testimony of respondents 3 and 4, there is nothing else on record to show that their father was inducted as a tenant to cultivate the land in dispute by the 5th respondent after the land is dispute was taken on mortgage by him.
23.  There is another aspect of this matter.
One of the main criteria for deciding whether a particular person is a tenant or not is to see whether there was payment of rent, either in cash or in kind.
So, it is not possible to presume that the father of the respondent Nos. 3 and 4 Gondappa, who is the uncle of respondent No. 5 was not the member of the family of the mortgagee, respondent No. 5.
As noted herein earlier, since section 121A of the Act clearly empowers the High Court to look into the legality of the orders impugned, therefore, it would be open to the High Court to consider the material evidence on record, when it finds that such evidence was not at all considered by the tribunals below or when the conclusion arrived at by the tribunals below run contrary to the materials on record or when it finds that there is no evidence to support the conclusion of the tribunals below or that the reasons given by the tribunals below are absolutely perverse or a finding was such that no court would come to such a conclusion or that the decisions of the tribunals below were manifestly unjust.
Such being the findings arrived at by the High Court with which we are in concurrence, it is difficult to hold that the tenancy claimed by the appellants in respect of the scheduled land could be established.
Since the respondents 3 and 4 failed to produce any documentary evidence to show that their father was put in possession of the land in dispute by the 5th respondent, mortgagee as a 'tenant' and that they are continuing as tenants in respect of the said land after the death of their father, I find that they are not entitled to grant of occupational rights.. The earlier decision of this Court reported in ILR 1996 KAR page 2340 that when a person fails to prove that he is cultivating the land as tenant, he cannot be granted occupational right notwithstanding the fact that he might be in possession of the land and cultivating the same, is applicable to the facts of the present case on all fours" .
Vs.
The High Court had set aside the order of the Land Tribunal and remanded the case back to the Tribunal for a fresh decision.
For the reasons aforesaid, this appeal fails and is dismissed without any order as to costs.
24.  In Union of India & Ors.
Accordingly, this decision is of no help to the appellants.
26.  Finally in Taherakhatoon (D) By Lrs.
The case of respondent No.4 was that the scheduled land was mortgaged to the 3rd respondent, Rajashankar, in the year 1968 and after the expiry of the said mortgage, the mortgagee was liable to deliver possession of the same.
15.  We have already noted the findings made by the High Court in the impugned judgment on the question whether the appellants could be held to be the tenants on the evidence and materials on record.
[(2000) 5 SCC 141] 2000 Indlaw SC 332, this Court had laid down that when there was nothing illegal and wrong in the reasoning and conclusions arrived at by the High Court and the same appeared to be well merited and in accordance with the interpretation of statutory provisions, this Court would not interfere with the order of the High Court article 136 of the Constitution.
In that decision, it has been made clear that the High Court was entitled to interfere with the orders of the appellate authority only on question of law or irregularity in procedure and on no other aspect.
16.  The tribunals below, while accepting the case of the appellants, had relied on the entries made in the RTC record in respect of certain period.
On the other hand, in Form No. 7 filed by Gondappa, the father of the respondents 3 and 4, he alleged that he was the tenant under the 5th respondent in respect of the land in dispute from the year 1968.
