In other words, where a person's legitimate expectation in not fulfilled by taking a particular decision then decision maker should justify the denial of such expectation by showing some overriding public interest.
The doctrine of 'promissory estoppel' has assumed importance in recent years though it was dimly noticed in some of the earlier cases.
7.  In the backdrop, let us travel a little distance into the past to understand the evolution of the doctrine of "promissory estoppel".
The rule of promissory estoppel can be invoked only if on the basis of representation made by the Government, the industry was established to avail benefit if of exemption.
25.  Further, a definite plea was taken that there was no scope for retrospective withdrawal of benefit by an executive order.
Another point which was specifically raised before the High Court but has not been dealt by it is the legality of the action in directing retrospective withdrawal of the benefit by a letter of the Government.
The doctrines of promissory estoppel and legitimate expectation were applicable to the facts of the case.
23.  In view of the factual position recorded by the High Court that at the point of time the appellants' units were set up and the commercial production started there was no assurance or promise.
(2) No inducement was made in the Government orders to establish the units.
v. Union of India and Anr., [1995] 1 SCC 274 1994 Indlaw SC 2183 it was held that the doctrine of promissory estoppel represents a principle evolved by equity to avoid injustice.
It is generally agreed that 'legitimate expectation' gives the applicant sufficient locus standi for judicial review and that the doctrine of legitimate expectation to be confined mostly to right to a fair hearing before a decision which results in negativing a promise or withdrawing an undertaking is taken.
As the correctness of factual basis justifying withdrawal is in issue, fair play certainly warranted grant of opportunity to the appellants to present its side of the picture.
We make it clear that we have not expressed any opinion on the factual aspects except indicating the principles underlying legitimate expectation.
The legitimate substantive expectation merely permits the Court to find out if the change of policy which is the cause for defeating the legitimate expectation is irrational or perverse or one which no reasonable person could have made.
Whether there is any Government order in terms of Article 166; has to be adjudicated from the factual background of each case.
(3) The Governor shall make rules for the more convenient transaction of the business of the Government of the State, and for the allocating among Ministers of the said business in so far as it is not business with respect to which the Governor is by or under this Constitution required to act in his discretion.
28.  We direct that the State Government, if it so chooses, shall file its further counter-affidavits before the High Court within six weeks from today indicating the reasons which warranted the withdrawal of the benefits extended.
26.  Above being the position, decision of the High Court by placing reliance on the files to hold that the withdrawal was justified, is not tenable in law and in the fitness of things, the High Court should hear the matter afresh and taken decision on those two issues.
In a given case whether there are such facts and circumstances giving rise to legitimate expectation, would primarily be a question of fact.
2.  In support of the appeals the primary stands raised by the appellants are: 3.
Whether the same is permissible in law has to be decided by the High Court.
The Government has exercised their right to modify the scheme in the interest of public revenue.
Moreover, the negotiation of a legitimate expectation (falling short of a legal right) is too nebulous to form a basis for invalidating the exercise of a power when its exercise otherwise accords with law.
6.  The stand taken by the present appellants before the Tribunal and the High Court was rejected.
12.  This Court's observations in G. B. Mahajan v. Jalgaon Municipal Council, AIR (1991) SC 1153 1990 Indlaw SC 438 are kept out of lush field of administrative policy except where policy is inconsistent with the express or implied provision of a statute which creates the power to which the policy relates or where a decision made in purported exercise of power is such that a repository of the power acting reasonably and in good faith could not have made it.
Doctrine of "Promissory Estoppel" has been envolved by the courts, on the principles of equity, to avoid injustice. "Promissory Estoppel" is defined in Black's Law Distionary as "an estoppel which arises when there is a promise which promissor should reasonable expect to induce action or forbearance of a definite and substantial character on the part of promisee, and which does include such action or forbearance, and such promise is binding if injustice can be avoided only by enforcement of promise".
No. 1294 dated 24.10.1975 granted exemption from purchase tax on sugarcane in favour of sugar mills established in "co-operative and public sectors" in the form of annual subsidy equivalent to purchase tax on sugarcane.
If there is a supervening public equity, the Government would be allowed to change its stand and has the power to withdraw from representation made by it which induced persons to take certain steps which may have gone adverse to the interest of such persons on account of such withdrawal.
As noted above no specific grounds or reasons were indicated to justify the withdrawal in the affidavits filed before the Tribunal or the High Court, as the case may be.
27.  It is to be noted that no privilege was claimed from production of the file as the files were produced before the High Court and in fact the High Court referred to the materials on the files to affirm State's action.
Further, is no particular formula of words required for compliance with Article 166(1).
So far as this Court is concerned, it invoked the doctrine in Indo Afghan Agencies's case 1967 Indlaw SC 411 (supra) in which is was, inter alia, laid down that even though the case would not fall within the terms of Section 115 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 (in short the 'Evidence Act') which enacts the rule of estoppel, it would still be open to a party who had acted on a representation made by the Government to claim that the Government should be bound to carry out the promise made by it even though the promise was not recorded in the form of a formal contract as required by Article 299 of the Constitution.
The point to note is that the thing is not unreasonable in the legal sense merely because the Court thinks it to be unwise.
v. State of Mysore and Ors., AIR (1964) SC 1823 1964 Indlaw SC 103 held that the provisions of the Article were only directory and not mandatory in character and if they were not complied with it could still be established as a question of fact that the impugned order was issued in fact by the State Government or the Governor.
While taking policy decision, the government is not required to hear the persons who have been granted the benefit which is sought to be withdrawn.
It is, however, not necessary to explore the doctrine in this case, it is enough merely to note that a legitimate expectation can provide a sufficient interest to enable one who cannot point to the existence of a substantive right to obtain the leave of the court to apply for judicial review.
It follows that the concept of legitimate expectation is 'not the key which unlocks the treasure of natural justice and it ought not to unlock the gates which shuts the Court out of review on the merits,' particularly, when the elements of speculation and uncertainty are inherent in that very concept.
That purpose is to avoid or prevent a detriment to the party asserting the estoppel by compelling the opposite party to adhere to the assumption upon which the former acted or abstained from acting.
The Courts are bound to consider all aspects including the results sought to be achieved and the public good at large, because while considering the applicability of the doctrine, the Courts have to do equity and the fundamental principles of equity must for ever be present in the mind of the Court.
v. Shree Durga Oil Mills and Anr., [1999] 1 SCC 573 1997 Indlaw SC 1219, it was further held that the Government could change its industrial policy if the situation so warranted and merely because the resolution was announced for a particular period, it did not mean that the government could not amend and change the policy under any circumstances.
The caution, particularly in the changing scenario becomes all the more important.
The appellants question correctness of the judgment rendered by a Division Bench of the Madras High Court which held that the withdrawal of benefits extended to the appellants as subsidy was in order.
29.  To the aforesaid limited extent, the matter is remitted to the High Court for fresh consideration.
16.  As observed in Attorney General for New South wale v. Quinn, [1990] 64 Australian LJR 327 to strike the exercise of administrative power solely on the ground of avoiding the disappointment of the legitimate expectations of an individual would be to set the Courts adrift on a featureless sea of pragmatism.
A new class of estoppel has come to be recognized by the courts in this country as well as in England.
v. U.P. State Electricity Board and Others, AIR (1997) SC 3910 1997 Indlaw SC 1364 and in Sales Tax Officers and Anr.
19.  Article 166 of the Constitution deals with the conduct of Government business.
The present is as we experience it, the past is a present memory and future is a present expectation.
The basic requirement of Article 14 is fairness in action by the State, and non-arbitrariness in essence and substance is the heart beat of fair play.
In fact, the Government of Tamil Nadu vide G.O.Ms.
Clause (1) does not prescribe how an executive action of the Government is to be performed; it only prescribes the mode under which such act is to be expressed.
A question whether the impugned action is arbitrary or not is to be ultimately answered on the facts and circumstances of a given case.
It depends very much on the facts and the recognised general principles of administrative law applicable to such facts and the concept of legitimate expectation which is the latest recruit to a long list of concepts fashioned by the Courts for the review of administrative action must be restricted to the general legal limitations applicable and binding the manner of the future exercise of administrative power in a particular case.
