The suit ultimately no doubt was disposed of on the basis of a compromise arrived at between the parties but the court took sufficient care in disposing of the appeals on the terms of compromise by observing that the State has substantial interest with regard to fisheries rights covered by the litigation and nothing in the decree will not affect the rights of the State of West Bengal in any manner whatsoever to the fisheries in question if they are vested in the State under the provisions of West Bengal Estates Acquisition Act, 1953, It would be appropriate at this stage to extract this part of the decree passed by this Court: "In view of the foregoing, we again wish to re-emphasize that the terms the decree shall not affect the rights of the State of West Bengal, in any manner whatsoever to the fisheries in question, if they have vested in the state under the provisions of the West Bengal Estates Acquisition Act, 1953 (Act X of 1954).
The dispute centres around a fishery called Nalban Fishery.
The injunction order issued against Bansilal Farms, appellant in appeal arising out of SLP (C) No. 13314 of 1992, stands vacated.
Leave granted.
Order Accordingly
Sarkar family moved this Court in SLP (C) No. 1452 of 1972.
5370 & 5371 of 1978.
14.
The Division Bench dismissed the appeal by its order dated 5.7.1971.
6.
4.
13.  The next question that arises for consideration is whether the order of Hon'ble Mr. Justice Deepak Kumar Sen dated 6.10.1980 would operate as res judicata since the State did not challenge the same.
2.  A suit for partition was filed by one of the Co-sharers of said Sarkar family in the High Court of Calcutta on 3.9.1955, which was registered as Suit No. 2539 of 1955.
As has been stated earlier the possession which was taken by the earlier Receiver was a symbolical one and factually the State had not been divested of its possession which it took on 8.11.1969.
The contention of Mr. Gupta appearing for the respondents, therefore, cannot be sustained.
It may be noted that Nalban Fishery had been requisitioned by the State of West Bengal under the provisions of Requisition Act since 5.11.1969 and possession thereof had been taken on 8.11.1969 and the Sarkar family had challenged the said order unsuccessfully which final by the dismissal of the special leave petition by this Court on 17.11.1972.
Pursuant to the aforesaid order appointing Collector 24 Parganas as Receiver, the Collector 24 Parganas took possession of the fisheries including Nalban Fishery as Receiver and submitted a compliance report dated 22.11.1978 to the Registrar of this Court.
The said receiver will be fully justified in rectifying any mistake or error committed by him while implementing the direction of the court.
Besides the direction of the learned Judge to the effect: "The collector, 24 Paraganas, is directed to allow Messers Ghose and Saha Surveyors to make proper demarcation in the Nalban Fishery dividing the same in two lots.
In this connection, he had further urged that this question had not been raised before the High Court.
The aforesaid writ petition was dismissed by the learned Single Judge.
There will be no order as to costs.
From the order in question which has been annexed as Annexure P to the Special Leave Petition (C) No. 13314 of 1992, it appears that the order was passed on the application on one of the members of Sarkar family Mr. Pulak Sarkar.
16.  In view of our aforesaid conclusions, the impugned directions of the learned Single Judge as well as of the Division Bench are set aside and these appeals are allowed.
The successor Receiver, in the circumstances, therefore, was fully justified in bringing it to the notice of this Court by giving a second report indicating therein that his predecessor had erroneously taken the possession of Nalban Fishery which is in contravention of the directions of this court dated 18.4.1979 and for which the Receiver offered his unconditional apology.
A learned Single Judge of the Calcutta High Court passed a preliminary decree in the said suit on 11.8.1960.
The appeal to the Division Bench was preferred against the aforesaid order of dismissal which was registered as F.M.A. No. 126 of 1970.
It may be noticed at this stage that Bansilal Farms, appellant in appeal arising out of SLP (C) No. 13314 of 1992 was the highest offerer for running the Boating Complex on the surface water of Nalban Fishery and had been granted licence for that purpose and in fact had started the operation of the Boating Complex since 1991 but on the application of Mrs. Dhira Mitra one of the Co- sharers of the Sarkar family, the High Court having issued an order of injunction, the farm is no longer operating.
It is no doubt true that a writ petition has been filed challenging the validity of the aforesaid Act and Notification issued there under in relation to vary Nalban Fishery, which is still pending and, therefore, it would not be proper for us to examine the provisions of the emended West Bengal Land Reforms Act and to express any opinion thereon.
Suffice it to say that under the amended provisions of the West Bengal Land Reforms Act tank fishery being included in the land would vest in the State by combined reading of Sections 3A and 14 and, therefore, the State cannot be divested of the rights accruing by the amended provisions until the amended provisions are declared invalid by a competent court of law.
1.  These three appeals by special leave are directed against one and the same judgment dated 25.09.l992 of the Division Bench of Calcutta High Court.
The order was in fact a direction to the Collector 24 Paraganas who had been appointed as a Receiver by the Supreme Court in the pending appeal before it.
We do not find any illegality in the act of the succeeding Receiver in rectifying the earlier mistake and re-delivering the possession of Nalban Fishery to the State of West Bengal.
No reasons have been given by the learned Judge in issuing the said directing and on the other hand the order appears to be bald order calling upon and, thereafter, carry out the directions of the Hon'ble Supreme Court in respect of the same.
Judged from this view there is no infirmity with the direction issued by the learned Single Judge as well as Division Bench of the Calcutta High Court warranting interference by this Court.
By order dated 17.11.1972 this Court dismissed the special leave petition.
The Sarkar family thereupon filed an application before the Calcutta High Court contending inter alia that under the decree passed in the partition suit by the Supreme Court the property belongs to the Sarkar family and could not have been handed-over to the State of West Bengal, That application was disposed of by the learned Single called upon the Collector 24 Parganas who was the Receiver pursuance to the orders of the Supreme Court to take over the possession of Nalban Fishery from the State of West Bengal and give vacant possession of the same to the Sarkar family.
Members of the Sarkar family challenged the order of requisition by filing a writ petition in Calcutta High Court in November, 1969 which was registered as Civil Rule No. 7317 (W) of 1969.
15.  The next question that arises for consideration is what is the effect of the amendment to the West Bengal Land Reforms Act which was amended in the year 1986 but with retrospective effect.
The direction of the learned Single Judge on the other hand is to carry out the directions of the Supreme Court in respect of the Nalban Fishery.
The receiver appointed by a court is an officer of the court.
The Receiver, therefore, intimated to the Registrar of this Court the mistake committed by him in his earlier report and after taking advice from the Senior Counsel expressed apology to this Court for the mistake committed in the earlier report While the matter stood thus in relation to the aforesaid Nalban Fishery, the Government of West Bengal handed over the possession of the said Nalban Fishery to the Director of Inland Fisheries, State Fisheries Development Corporation for undertaking fisheries development scheme.
The State of West Bengal was neither a party to the proceedings nor was noticed by the High Court before passing the order.
" 10.  It is an undisputed fact that Nalban Fishery had been requisitioned much prior to the aforesaid decree of this court dated 18.4.1979 and, therefore, the rights of the State to the fishery either by virtue of the requisition order or by virtue of any provision of any other statute remained protected and as such said State of West Bengal can't be bound down by the so-called allotment of fisheries in favour of some members of the Sarkar family under the compromise decree in question.
The aforesaid Corporation issued an advertisement for auctioning the Nalban Fishery for a Boating Complex.
One of the Co-sharers of the Sarkar family preferred an appeal against the preliminary decree before the Division Bench which was registered as Appeal No, 200 of 1960.
