11.  We have carefully examined the provisions under Section 121A of the Act, which is the revisional power under the Act, and also the provisions section 115 of the Code of Civil Procedure (for short "the Code").
In this case, while rejecting the claim of the appellants, the High Court had considered that the appellants had failed to satisfy the court that any payment of rent was made either by the father of the appellants or by the appellants themselves.
In our view, we have already held that the High Court was entitled to interfere with the concurrent orders of the tribunals below as material evidence on record was not considered at all and non consideration of the material evidence on record is a question of law and, therefore, the High Court was entitled to interfere.
It is further significant to note that in the evidence given by the respondent No. 3 before the Land Tribunal, he claimed that his father has taken the land in dispute on lease in the year 1962, from the father of the petitioners, Gundu Rao.
So far as section 115 of the Code is concerned, it has been made clear that it is only in case of a jurisdictional error or when the courts below had acted with material irregularity in the exercise of their jurisdiction that the question of interfering with such an order can arise, otherwise, the High Court is not entitled to interfere with any other order which does not satisfy the conditions laid down for interference section 115 of the Code.
In any view of the matter, in that decision, relying on the aforesaid findings, this Court also had set aside the order made by the appellate authority as affirmed by the High Court in revision and restored the order made by the land tribunal.
18.  Considering the above aspect of the matter and after considering the scope of Section 121A of the Act, we are, therefore, unable to agree with the learned counsel for the appellants that in the exercise of revisional jurisdiction under Section 121A of the Act, the High Court was not entitled to set aside the concurrent findings of fact arrived at by the appellate authority and the land tribunal.
14.  Keeping the aforesaid principles in mind as to when the High Court would be justified, in the exercise of its power under Section 121A of the Act, to examine the legality of the orders of the tribunals below in an appropriate case, let us now examine the findings of the High Court, while setting aside the concurrent findings of fact of the Tribunals below.
17.  That being the position, the High Court had come to a proper conclusion that the entries in the RTC extracts produced by the appellants could not support the contention that they were cultivating the land in dispute as the tenants.
21.  If that case is of any help to the facts of the present case, it would be in favour of the respondents.
" 7.  Again, the High Court, while setting aside the findings of fact also made the following findings: "But in the instant case, since the respondents 3 and 4 failed to produce any evidence to show that their father was cultivating the land in dispute as a tenant under the 5th respondent mortgagee and even when the entries in the R.T.C. extract produced do not support the claim of tenancy set up by the father of the respondents 3 and 4, the question of drawing presumption of deemed tenancy in his favour under section 4 of the Act does not arise.
But, it is significant to note that the nature of cultivation of the land is not shown as that of a tenant in the said R.T.C. extracts.
Such being the position, we do not find any reason to interfere with the judgment of the High Court, although the High Court, in the exercise of its power under Section 121A of the Act, had set aside the concurrent orders of the appellate authority as well as the land tribunal.
Initially, the Land Tribunal allowed the application of the father of the appellants and feeling aggrieved; a writ petition was filed against the said order.
The father of the respondents 3 and 4, being the uncle of respondent No. 5-Mortgagee, it is also quite possible that he might have been allowed to cultivate the land in dispute under the personal supervision of respondent No. 5 by assisting him in cultivation of the said land.
[(1997) 10 SCC 305], 1995 Indlaw SC 1227 this Court, while declining to interfere with the order of the High Court in the exercise of its power article 136 of the Constitution, held that even if two views are possible, the view taken by the High Court being a plausible one, it would not call for intervention by this Court article 136 of the Constitution.
They alleged that they were cultivating the scheduled land from 1968 till the notified date under the Act on Wara basis giving 1/3rd of the share in the foodgrains to respondent No.4.
section 4 of the Act makes it clear that a member of the owner's family cannot be considered as a deemed tenant, even if he is lawfully cultivating the land belonging to owner.
While setting aside the findings of the Tribunal, the High Court, at paragraph 7 of the impugned judgment made the following findings: "It is an undisputed fact that the revision petitioner has mortgaged the land in dispute in favour of the 5th respondent, Rajashankar in the year 1968 and after the expiry of the mortgage period, since the 5th respondent failed to deliver back the possession of the land in dispute to him, he filed the suit for redemption and obtained a decree for redemption.
While doing so, in our view, the High Court was justified in coming to the conclusion that the evidence and material on record would clearly establish that the appellants were not able to prove that they were the tenants in respect of the scheduled land under the respondents.
A special leave petition was filed against the judgment of the High Court, setting aside the concurrent orders allowing the application, in respect of which leave has already been granted.
So, the only question which arises for consideration is whether the said cultivation of the land in dispute by the father of the respondents 3 and 4 during the years 1968 to 1974 can be presumed to be that of a tenant under the provisions of section 4 of the Karnataka Land Reforms Act.
The power conferred on the High Court to revise the orders of the tribunals below has been provided in Section 121A of the Act, which runs as under: "The High Court may at any time call for the records of any order or proceeding recorded by the Appellate authority under this Act or any other law for the purpose of satisfying itself as to the legality of such order or as to the regularity of such proceeding and may pass such order with respect thereto as it thinks fit" 9.  From a plain reading of Section 121A of the Act, under which revisional jurisdiction can be exercised, it would be clear that the High Court, while exercising such power is entitled to re-appreciate the evidence when it finds that the conclusion arrived at by the appellate authority runs contrary to the materials on record and when it finds that there is no evidence to support the conclusion of the appellate authority or when it finds that the reasons given by the appellate authority are absolutely perverse and cannot be supported by the evidence on record.
