I submit that these appointment orders (annexures A/1 and A/2) bear my signature (initial) and appear to have been issued under my signature.
" 5.  In Civil Appeal arising out of SLP (C) No. 19375-19376 of 2005, the respondents were appointed on ad hoc basis for a period of six months.
23.  In Kumari Shrilekha Vidyarthi 1990 Indlaw SC 463 (supra), this Court was dealing with a question in regard to continuance of the Law Officers.
Cl.
(Rev.) dated 11.9.97 (Annexure A/2 to the writ petition) appointing 4 persons to the post of Mandol, are perused by me minutely.
He was merely put a Chairman of the DPC for non-ministerial post of the Revenue Department.
(2) the words dismissed removed and reduced in rank have been used.
The said Shri Tayeng retired on 28.02.1998.
Strong reliance in this behalf has been placed on Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan and Others v. Ajay Kumar Das and Others [(2002) 4 SCC 503  2002 Indlaw SC 287].
Their appointments were also cancelled on similar grounds.
With reference to the U.O. letter No. 2/15/93 Com(R) Pt.
He was only a cadre controlling authority.
It is only after their satisfactory performance during that period that a deed of engagement is given to them, and even then the engagement is to be for a term not exceeding three years.
9.  Mr. Jaideep Gupta, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the appellants, would submit that the High Court went wrong in passing the impugned judgment insofar as it failed to take into consideration that in a case of this nature it was not necessary to comply with the principles of natural justice.
They were not issued by any authority competent therefor.
Appeal allowed.
As stated above, I was transferred and posted to the Manipur Electronics Development Corporation during 1997.
3.  The Commissioner allegedly made certain appointments in the posts of Mandols, Process-Servers and Zilladars which was not within the knowledge of the State.
Arbitrariness is the very negation of the rule of law.
The latter are not appointed as a part of the spoils system.
The renewal of their further term again depends upon the quality of work and conduct, capacity as a lawyer, professional conduct, public reputation in general, and character and integrity as certified by the District Magistrate and the District Judge.
Satisfaction of this basic test in every State action is sine qua non to its validity and in this respect, the State cannot claim comparison with a private individual even in the field of contract.
The purported appointment letters were fake ones.
[AIR 1978 SC 851  1977 Indlaw SC 53].
28.  In M.C. Mehta v. Union of India and Others [(1999) 6 SCC 237  1999 Indlaw SC 1396], this Court developed the "useless formality" theory stating: "More recently Lord Bingham has deprecated the useless formality theory in R. v. Chief Constable of the Thames Valley Police Forces, ex p Cotton by giving six reasons.
I still deny that I have made any appointment of field staffs of Revenue Department during the recent months.
It was, thus, for them to establish existence of a legal right in their favour and a corresponding legal duty in the respondents to continue to be employed.
After my retirement from service I have no access to such files.
His work is also subject to strict supervision.
35.
4.
2.
1.
Leave granted.
8.  The writ appeals preferred there against by the appellants herein were dismissed.
12.  The State while offering appointments, having regard to the constitutional scheme adumbrated in articles 14 and 16 of the Constitution of India, must comply with its constitutional duty, subject to just and proper exceptions, to give an opportunity of being considered for appointment to all persons eligible there for.
" 32.  For the reasons aforementioned, the impugned judgments cannot be sustained.
Submitted for information and consideration.
" No record in regard to the said recruitments was maintained.
The offers of appointment were cancelled not on the ground that some irregularities had been committed in the process of recruitment but on the ground that they had been non-est in the eye of law.
v. Chief Election Commissioner, Delhi and Ors.
de Smith says courts have not yet committed themselves to any one view though discretion is always with the court.
" 31.  In R.S. Garg v. State of U.P. and Others [(2006) 6 SCC 430  2006 Indlaw SC 801], it was stated: "A discretionary power as is well known cannot be exercised in an arbitrary manner.
His action has created lots of misunderstanding and confusion.
They are set aside accordingly.
Foulkes, Craig  and others say that the court cannot prejudge what is to be decided by the decision-making authority.
No costs.
61, 78, 79, 95 and 100 of 1999 upholding a judgment and order of a learned Single Judge of the said Court dated 19.02.1999 in C.R. Nos. 324, 1012, 568, 1022 and 1023 of 1998.
(2) of article 309 of the Constitution of India in the event any disciplinary action is taken against them stating: "The underlying idea obviously is that a provision like this will ensure to them a certain amount of security of tenure.
I have gone through the copy of the writ petition and the counter-affidavit and annexures thereto.
It was held: "34.
10.  It was argued that the question, as to whether appointments were made without the knowledge of the Department or for that matter whether any record was available there for was of not much significance as in effect and substance they lead to the same inference and in that view of the matter, the decision of this Court in Mohinder Singh Gill 1977 Indlaw SC 53 (supra) was not attracted.
Imphal, the 12th Jan., 1998 Sub: Submission of report.
Despite the fact that he, in his UO Note dated 12.02.1998 addressed to the Minister of Revenue, denied to have made any appointment, when approached by the writ petitioners respondents, he affirmed in their support an affidavit in the High Court stating: "3.
He has been making false and wrong allegations against the Commissioner (Revenue) and putting him false position.
They have not been able to show that any advertisement had been issued inviting applications from eligible candidates to fill up the said posts.
17.  The Commissioner furthermore was not the appointing authority.
of the Hon'ble Minister (Revenue), I am to say that I am not all aware of such appointments made by me except for 3 Lambus who were kept in panel for appointment, and accordingly the S.O. (Revenue) Shri Robert Shaiza was instructed to take care.
The expenditure is debitable under Appropriate Heads of Accounts of the Departments/ Offices concerned.
In our opinion, the wide sweep of article 14 undoubtedly takes within its fold the impugned circular issued by the State of U.P. in exercise of its executive power, irrespective of the precise nature of appointment of the Government Counsel in the districts and the other rights, contractual or statutory, which the appointees may have.
