Mr. Bhimasankaram, appearing for the two respondents, however, has not sought to support the judgment of the High Court on all these points.
Similarly there is section 5 of the Evidence Act which reads thus:" "It is the case of the prosecution that the alleged payments were never made by VESCO to the various firms.
Therefore, a pardon granted by him in such a case would be illegal.
Next according to the High Court even if section 239 is applicable its provisions are subject to those of section 234 and as such the trial being for more than three offences was impermissible.
In Swamirathnam's case (1), which is a decision of this Court certain persons were tried for the offence of the conspiracy to cheat the members of the public and for specific offences of cheating in pursuance of that conspiracy.
As we are remanding the appeal to the High Court for a fresh decision after full consideration of the evidence adduced in the case it would be open to it to consider this matter particularly while judging the credibility of the-evidence of the approver.
In that case the impact of section 120-B, I.P.C. on sections 233 and 239 of the Code of Criminal Procedure was considered by this Court and this Court observed:" "Here again, the question of clubbing together of the various provisions of cls.
The explanations of the Managing Agents and the Directors of VESCO with respect to the items mentioned in the orders of the Board used also to be placed by him before the shareholders.
Criminal conspiracy was, however, not an unknown thing before the amendment of the Indian Penal Code in 1913.
Finally he said that the court did not perform its duty under section 342 (4) of the Code as amended as it failed to bring to the notice of the respondents that they may, if they chose, give evidence in their defence.
one B. Rajan was elected Auditor not only for VESCO but for all the other four concerns, including AECO.
Mr. Bhimasankaram's argument on the point may be summarised thus : Such a power cannot be conferred upon an Additional District Magistrate because section 337 (1) does not contemplate grant of pardon by an Additional District Magistrate and that the Additional District Magistrate would have no status other than that of a Magistrate, First Class.
Indeed, the very expression 'so far as may be' empha- sises the fact that while the earlier provisions have to be borne in mind by the Court while applying section 239 it is not those provisions but the latter which is to have an overriding effect.
The first reason is that none of the offences alleged to have been committed falls within section 337 of the Code of Criminal Procedure and the second reason is that the pardon was granted by an authority not empowered to grant it.
Thus under this provision if the connection between the various offences is established the limitations placed by section 234(1) both as regards the number and the period during which the offences are alleged to have been committed will not apply.
The knowledge of the Financial position of VESCO obtained by them used to be derived essentially from the respondent No. 1.
(a) and (d) of section 239? These are enabling provisions which circumstance implies that the court may avail itself of one or more of these provisions unless doing so would amount to an infringement of any of the provisions of the Code.
Looking at the matter in that way, it is pointless to inquire further whether the provisions of section 239 are subject to those of section 236(1).
The only provision in the Code which permits the joint trial of more than one person is section 239 and what we have to see is whether under that provision the two respondents could have been jointly tried for the offences with which they were charged.
Those account books are in Gujrati and he stated in his evidence that the accounts were regularly kept and that there were no entries in them corresponding to the entries in the VESCO accounts.
According to Mr. Bhimasankaram, the pardon tendered to the approver was illegal and if the pardon is illegal his evidence is wholly inadmissible.
But it also provides that this will be subject to the exceptions contained in SS. 234, 235, 236 and 239.
The term of the managing agency was renewed in 1943 and AECO con- tinued to be managing agents until the VESCO was taken over by the Government in 1952.
If the evidence of the approver is left out the remaining evidence would be inadequate to sustain the prosecution case.
Mr. Bhimasankaram, supporting the view taken by the High Court then contends that it is not permissible to frame a charge of conspiracy when the matter has proceeded beyond the stage of conspiracy and that in pursuance of it offences have actually been committed.
Now, as regards the reliability of the approver.
Therefore, when A sues B for a sum of money it is open to him to put his account books' in evidence provided they are regularly kept in the course of business and show by reference to them that the amount claimed by him is debited against B. The entry though made by A in his own account books, and though it is in his own favour is a piece of evidence which the court may take into consideration for the purpose of determining whether the amount referred to therein was in fact paid by A to B. The entry by itself is of no help to A in his claim against B but it can be considered by the court along with the evidence of A for drawing the conclusion that the amount was paid by A to B. To this limited extent entries -in the account books are relevant and can be proved.
Again, the VESCO was shown as indebted to the Andhra Cement, ; to the extent of Rs. 42, 000/-.
Apart from this, the question whether the provisions of sections 233 to 236 have or have no overriding effect on section 239 is not strictly germane to the question considered by the High Court that is, clubbing together all the provisions of the various clauses of section 239.
In fact in April, 1952 the Collector attached VESCO properties for realising this amount.
Under cl.
It specifically provides that the power to tender pardon udder section 337 shall be exercised by executive magistrates except in cases referred to in the proviso to sub-s.
All these persons can be jointly tried for offences under section 147 by recourse to cl.
There were no complaints about the management of the affairs of VESCO or the AECO till the end of 1946 or the beginning of 1947.
It will be noticed that transportation for life was not the only punishment provided for an offence under section 409 of the Indian Penal Code even before the amendment made to the Indian Penal Code by section 117 of the Act 26 of 1955, the other alternative being imprisonment up to 10 years.
section 234 cannot also be regarded as an overriding provision because reading it that way will lead to the clear result that whereas several accused persons can be charged at the same trial with any number of different offences committed by them in the course of the same transaction they cannot be tried also for -offences of the same kind exceeding three in number and committed beyond a space of 12 months from the first to the last.
It is difficult to appreciate what purpose would be served by separating the trial for the same offence from the trial for different offences.
section 120 B provides that whoever is a party to a criminal conspiracy to commit an offence punishable with death, imprisonment for life or rigorous imprisonment for a term of two years or upwards shall be punishable in the same manner as if he has abetted such offence unless there was an express provision in the Code for the punishment of such conspiracy.
There, nine persons were jointly tried for 'an offence under section 5 (1) (c) and (d) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1947, and section 109, I. P. C. read with s' 420, section 466 and section 467, I. P. C. and all except one for offences under sections 420, 467/471, I.P.C. Some of them were also charged with separate offences under some of these provisions.
No doubt, the offence mentioned in charge No. I is alleged to have been committed not by just one person but by all the accused and the question is whether all these persons can be jointly tried in respect of all these offences.
In addition to his general supervisory functions and the special powers under the Code of hearing revision petitions, transfer petitions, appeals from Second Class Magistrates and the like, the District Magistrate was also to be assigned a specific area, the cases arising from which would be disposed of normally by himself.
The first charge is in respect of the conspiracy alleged to have been entered into by the two respondents, K. V. Ramana, the approver, and others "known and unknown" to commit criminal breach of trust of the funds of VESCO and, in order to screen its detection, to falsify the accounts of VESCO and to use forged documents as genuine.
In the meantime on November 29, 1951 there was a meeting of the General Body at which the accounts were, among other things, to be considered.
The complaint of Mr. Bhimasankaram is that the approver should have been questioned about the various facts which were sought to be established through his evidence and it was only if and when he was in a difficulty that he should have been allowed to refer to the account books.
For the purpose of showing that no amounts were received by the firms, their account books would thus be as relevant as the VESCO account books for the purpose of showing the contrary.
By Government Order No. 3106 dated September 9, 1949 the Government of the Province of Madras issued certain instructions to the Magistrates in pursuance of the separation of the judiciary from the executive.
It was contended by Mr. Chari that the expression "former part" would apply to the first sub- division of chapter XIX which deals with the form and content of the charges and the powers of the court with regard to the absence of charge and alteration of charge.
We do not think that either that or the other objection raised, that is, that the charge embraces within it all the offences said to have been committed by the respondents can properly.
In so far as the fourth point is concerned, that would have a bearing not on the form of the charge but on the credibility of the evidence bearing on the point of conspiracy.
Apparently Subba Raju was fully satisfied with this and other explanations and, therefore, he appointed one C. section Raju, who was the Manager of Andhra Cements to supervise over the affairs of VESCO.Apparently because of this a new method of misappropriation was adopted by the respondents by starting in the VESCO account books, an account called "suspense account".
The ideas, however, of the committing magistrate in stating all that is said there appears to have been merely to describe the conspiracy and do nothing more.
The District Magistrate was constituted as the principal magistrate of the District and as such was entrusted with the duty of general administration and superintendence and control over the other judicial magis- trates in the district.
The offence of conspiracy is an entirely independent offence and though other offences are committed in pursuance of the conspiracy the liability of the conspirators for the conspiracy itself cannot disappear.
Full effect cannot possibly be given to this provision if we hold that it is subject to the limitation of s.234(1).
But then section 235 (1) provides that if in any one series of acts so connected together as to form the same transaction more offences than one are committed by the same person, he may be charged with and tried at one trial for every such offence.
(2) of section 10 specifying the powers of the District Magistrate which would lie exercisable by the Additional District Magistrate concerned.
Now, since section 234(1) cannot be properly read a, , ; overriding section 235(1) there is no valid reason for construing it as overriding the provisions of section 239 either.
The points which he urged are briefly these: (1) That there was a misjoinder of charges and persons in that the various provisions of section 239 were clubbed together and an omnibus charge of conspiracy was framed which on its face was one likely to embarrass the respondents and make their task of defending themselves difficult.
In so far as some of the charges were concerned this Court pointed out that the Special judge who was to try the case should consider splitting them up so that the accused persons would not be prejudiced in answering the charges and defending themselves.
He suggests that this provision can also be reasonably interpreted to mean that where the offences are punishable with imprisonment exceeding 10 years pardon may be granted to the approver.
But it would be open to the court to resort to those provisions even in the case of a joint trial of several persons permissible under section 239.S. 236 is also an enabling provision to be availed of in case of doubt and it is meaningless to say that section 239 is subject to section 236. ]Bearing in mind the fact that the provisions in the "former part" of Chapter XIX are applicable to charges made with the aid of section 239 only "so far as may be" it would not be right to construe section 239 as being subject to the provisions of sections 233 to 236.
The first three provisions relate to the framing of charges against a single accused person.
The whole question has again been examined by this Court recently in Birichh Bhuian v. The State of Bihar Subba Rao J., who delivered the judgment of the Court has stated the position thus" "Even if we were to assume that there has been a misjoinder of charges in violation of the provisions of sections 233 to 239 of the Code, the High Court was incompetent to set aside the conviction of the respondents without coming to the definite conclusion that misjoinder had occasioned failure of justice.
Till the -year 1945 Messrs C. P. Rao & Co., a firm of Chartered Accountants were the auditors of VESCO but after the respondent No. I became Secretary.
As already stated, the Additional Sessions judge convicted both the respondents, the respondent No. I in respect of each head of the offences with which he was charged and the respondent No. 2 in respect only of the offences of conspiracy and misappropriation.
According to the prosecution the respondent No. I took both the approver and Lakshminarayana Rao in his confidence as also some other persons "known and unknown" for carrying out his nefarious purpose, namely, the misappropriation of the funds of VESCO during the subsistence of AECO's managing agency of VESCO.
It is true that there the charges were 67 in number and spread over a long period, of time.
The High Court seems to think that before reliance could be placed upon the evidence of the approver it must appear that he is a penitent witness.
Nor again, do we think that there is any substance in the complaint made that the respondents had no opportunity of referring to the documents to which reference has been made in certain questions.
The respondent No. 1, even after his appointment on two posts connected with VESCO, continued to work with the AECO also whose business had by then been confined only to that of Managing Agents of the four companies floated by D.L.N. Raju.
The High Court has also held that his evidence is unreliable and further that the Additional Sessions judge was in error in allowing him to refresh his memory by referring to various documents in a manner not permitted by section 159 of the Evidence Act.
Now, if persons A, B and C are tried for an offence of murder what intrinsic difficulty would there be in trying X, Y and Z of abetment of the same offence? The transaction in which all of them have participated is the same and the abetment by X, Y and Z of the offence committed by A, B and C would itself establish the connection of their acts with those of X, Y and Z. Next, let us take cls.
The latter accordingly made a confession on November 15, 1954 and on November 17, 1954 the Additional District Magistrate (Independent) granted him pardon and that is how he came to be examined as a witness in this case.
section 234 (1) deals with the trial of a person for offences of the same kind not exceeding three committed within the space of 12 months from the first to the last of such offences and section 231 (2) what is meant by the expression 'offences of' the same kind'.
There is, therefore, no warrant for drawing a distinction between the powers of "the District Magistrate" and the powers of "'a District Magistrate." The power of a District Magistrate to grant Pardon has been specifically conferred on Additional District Magistrates as would appear from section No. 37 of Sch.
Coming to the next ground of attack on the validity of pardon, the argument of Mr. Bhimasankaram is that whereas section 337 (1) speaks of pardon being granted by a District Magistrate, or Presidency Magistrate, a Sub-Divisional Magistrate or any Magistrate of First Class, except in cases where an enquiry or trial was pending before another Magis- tratc, the pardon here was granted by the Additional District Magistrate in a case where an enquiry was pending before the District Magistrate and is, therefore, illegal and of no avail.
In coming to the conclusion that the provisions of various clauses of section 239 cannot be applied cumulatively the High Court has relied upon the decision in Re: Vankavalapati Gopala Rao 1956 AIR(Andhra) 21 ).
Some time later other industrial concerns, the Andhra Cements Ltd., Vi jayawada and the East Coast Ceremics, Rajahmurthy were started apparently by Raju himself- and the AECO was appointed the Managing Agent of each of these concerns.
On a plain construction of the provisions of section 239, therefore, it is open to the Court to avail itself cumulatively of the provisions of the different clauses of section 239 for the purpose of framing charges and charges so framed by it will not be in violation of the law, the provisions of sections 233, 234 and 235 notwithstanding.
(We shall refer to this company throughout as the AECO).
The High Court will of course be bound by the finding which we have given on the questions of law agitated before us.
(a) says that persons accused of the same offence committed in the course of the same transaction may be charged and tried together.
A mention may be made of the fact that in June, 1952 the VESCO undertaking was acquired by the Government under the provisions of the "'Electricity Undertaking Acquisition Act" but nothing turns on it.
(1) of section 337 on the different clauses of Magistrates is of the same character.
The respondent No. I continued to be the Secretary of VESCO and resident representative of the Managing Agents throughout the period of conspiracy.
For, even in the absence of those words, the earlier provisions could not have been ignored.
Some of the facts in issue in this case are whether payments of certain sums of money were made to Crompton Engineering Co., and other firms or authorities.
Then we come to the other sub-head of this chapter.
section 233 provides that for every distinct offence of which any person is accused there shall be a. separate charge.
A large number of decisions of the different High Courts and one of the Privy Council have been considered in this case.
fact misappropriated by the, respondents in the circumstance that there are no corresponding entries in the account books of those firms.
But here, again, if those offences are alleged not to be wholly unconnected but as forming part of the same transaction the only consideration that will justify separate trials would be the embarrassment or difficulty caused to the accused persons in defending themselves.
Secondly, according to him, no direction has in fact been shown to have been made by the State Government conferring upon an Additional District Magistrate the power of the District Magistrate to grant pardon.
That is precisely what happened in this case and we do not think that the Additional Sessions judge adopted a procedure which was either a violation of law or was an abuse of the power of the Court.
Subba Raju was not satisfied with the nature of supervision exercised by C. section Raju over the affairs of VESCO because he used to look only at the cash book entries of the days on which he paid visits to VESCO's office, to which he used to go with previous intimation.
III to the Code a Magistrate, First Class, has the power to grant pardon under section 337 but it is limited by the proviso thereto to certain classes of cases.
Eventually their choice fell on G. V. Subba Raju, P. W. 25, a resident of Manchili, who held a large number of shares in the AECO and who was, besides, related to R.K.N.G. Raju by marriage.
This body of magistrates was made subordinate to the High Court.
The AECO as Managing Agents of VESCO had appointed in the year 1939 one D.V. Appala Raju, a trusted employee, as its representative and as the secretary of VESCO.
P.C. while conducting the examination of the respondents.
The irrelevant evidence to which Mr. Bhimasankaram referred was certain account books.
There remains the decision of this Court in K.V. Krishna Murthy Iyer v. The State of Madras (IN on which Mr. Bhimasankaram strongly relied.
The fact that no payments were received by those firms has been deposed to by persons connected with those firms and whose duty it was to receive and acknowledge amounts received by the firms or who were in charge of the accounts of these firms.
On April 30, 1952 the respondent No. 1, by selling some of his property, himself paid Rs. 50, 000/- to the Andhra Power System towards the sum due to it from VESCO and had promised to pay the balance shortly thereafter.
He contends that since the offence is punishable with transportation for life, section 337 (1) could not be availed of for granting pardon to the approver.
In "that book payments which used to be made by respondent No. 2 on the basis of slips issued by the respondent No. I  used to be noted and the amount totalled up at the end of the day.
(a) to (g) can be tried together in one case which certainly involves a bewildering multiplicity of charges and which would obviously set at naught the salutary principle contained in section 233.
The High Court has pointed out that the main evidence on which the prosecution rests its case that the amount represented by the entries against these various firms were in.
The object in saying what has been set out in the first charge was only to give notice to the respondents as to the ambit of the conspiracy to which they will have to answer and nothing more.
Thus he points out that where several persons are accused of more offences than one of the same kind committed by them jointly within a period of 12 months, the number of offences for which they could be tried cannot exceed three.
(4) That the Court abused its powers under s.342, Cr.
The prosecution case is that these receipts are forged documents and the entries in the account books of VESCO are false.
Another point urged by Mr. Bhimasankaram was that as many as 2, 000 documents were "dumped" by the prosecution in this case out of which 1600 documents were not sought to be proved by it.
The very object of this provision is to allow pardon to be tendered in cases where a grave offence is alleged to have been committed by several persons so that with the aid of the evidence of the person pardoned the offence could be brought home to the rest.
The chapter is split up into two sub-heads, '-Form of charges"and" Joinder of charges.
The same offence committed by all of them is that under section 147 and all of them can be tried jointly in respect of that offence under cl.
This amount was posted in VESCO's Cash Handover Book as "'by safe" indicating that this amount was kept in the safe, though in fact it was not.
The reasons given by the Allahabad High Court, therefore, do not merit acceptance.
The decision of the Allahabad High Court in T. R. Mukherji's case (IL), is directly in point and is clearly to the effect that the different clauses of section 239 are mutually exclusive in the sense that it is not possible to combine the provisions of two or more clauses in any one case and to try jointly several persons partly by applying the provisions of one clause and partly by applying those of another or other clauses.
As Secretary of VESCO it was his duty to convene the meetings of the Board of Directors, to present before them the periodical statement of receipts and expenditure of VESCO, to convene meetings of the General Body, to prepare the Managing Agents' report and the Director's report as also to see to the presentation of auditors' report and the statement of accounts.
According to the prosecution the second Raju was not bestowing sufficient care and attention on the affairs of VESCO.
A conspiracy must be regarded as one transaction and, there- fore, a single individual charged with it could be tried with the aid of section 235(1) for all the acts committed by him in furtherance or in pursuance of the conspiracy without the limitations imposed by s.234(1).
But while this principle is easy to appreciate and follow where one person alone is the accused and the interaction or intervention of the acts of more persons than one does not come in, it would, where the same act is committed by several persons, be not only inconvenient but injudicious to try all the several persons separately.
The section itself shows that the motivating factor for an approver to turn, what in England is called "King's evidence" is the hope of pardon and not any noble sentiment like contrition at the evil in which he has participated.
Mr. Bhimasankaram supports the reason given by the High Court for coming to the conclusion that there was a misjoinder of charges.
It would be ridiculous to say that they cannot be tried together for jointly committing the murder of the man and the wife because cl.
That section reads thus:" "This provision relates only to the oral evidence adduced in a case and not to documentary evidence.
OD September 13, 1954 Ramana offered to make a full Confession to the Additional District Magistrate (Independent) who was empowered to grant pardon under section 337 of i he Code of Criminal Procedure.
III to the Code of Criminal procedure the power to grant pardon will continue to have that power and, therefore, a pardon granted by a judicial Magistrate in contravention of the Government order will not be rendered invalid.
Charge of conspiracy, according to the High Court, can be validly made only when the prosecution establishes that every conspirator expected to receive a personal benefit from it and that the prosecution has not been able to establish that the respondent No. 2 or the approver evidently had any such expectations since they did not in fact receive any corresponding benefit.
He was assured that by consenting to become the Managing Director be would not be required to discharge onerous duties and that the respondent No. I would look to all the affairs of VESCO.
The precise point which we have to consider here did not fall for consideration in that case i.e., whether the provisions of the various clauses of section 239 could be used together or not.
On the other band there is the decision of this Court in The State of Andhra Pradesh v. Kandinmlla Subbaiah , which is to the effect that where several persons had committed offences in the course of the same transactions, they could jointly be tried in respect of all those offences under section 239 of the Code of Criminal Procedure and the limitation placed by section 234 of the Code could not come into operation.
Here, one of the offences alleged against the respondents is criminal breach of trust punishable under section 409, I.P.C. It is not exclusively triable by a Court of Sessions and the punishment as set out in the 7th column of Schedule II, Cr. P. C. was transportation for life or imprisonment of either description for ten years and fine.
