4.   The first respondent is Jupiter Infosys Limited.
As regards Class 9 he would submit that in view of the affidavit filed by the first respondent on July 14, 2004 in the Court of Additional District Judge, Delhi the first respondent ceases to be an aggrieved person on the date of consideration of the rectification application.
A likelihood of some injury or damage to the applicant by such trade mark remaining on the register may meet the test of locus standi.
(e) Whether the registered trade mark is disentitled for protection in a Court of Law under Section 11(e) of the Trade and Merchandise Marks Act? (f) Whether the registered trade mark has lost its distinctiveness and is liable to be removed under section 32(c)? (g) Whether the respondent has committed fraud while obtaining registration of the mark? And (h) To what further relief? 11.
26.  It was contended by Mr. Vaibhav Gaggar that even otherwise in view of the fraud perpetrated by the appellant qua the registrations in question, the issue as to whether the first respondent had a dispute with the trade mark or not pales into insignificance as the primary duty of the court is to maintain the 'purity of the register'.
It was incorporated and registered under the Companies Act, 1956 on July 2, 1981 in the name of Infosys Consultants Private Limited.
Three sections viz. Sections 46, 56 and 69 of the Act contain the phrase.
He contended that the IPAB failed to apply proper legal tests for determining 'goods of the same description' and had that been done it would be evident that 'computer software' amounts to 'goods of the same description' as 'computer hardware'.
(5) Any order of the High Court rectifying the register shall direct that notice of the rectification shall be served upon the Registrar in the prescribed manner who shall upon receipt of such notice rectify the register accordingly.
35.   Insofar as Section 56 is concerned, it provides for varying situations in which the person aggrieved may apply for rectification of the registered trade mark from the register.
Applications under Sections 46 and 56 may be made to the Registrar who is competent to grant the relief.
Consequently, the IPAB allowed the applications made by the first respondent purportedly under Section 46(1)(b) of The 1958 Act and directed the Registrar to remove these registrations from the register.
22.   Learned counsel for the appellant also submitted that in any view of the matter, the IPAB erred in exercising its discretion under Section 46 of The 1958 Act without taking into consideration the aspect of public interest.
The interpretation of the expression 'person aggrieved' occurring in Sections 46 and 56 has come up for consideration before this Court on more than one occasion.
In O.P. No. 764 of 2001, the first respondent prayed for the removal/rectification of the entry in the register of trade mark in respect of trade mark No. 475269 in Class 16 while in the other two applications being O.P. No. 765 of 2001 and O.P. No. 766 of 2001, the first respondent prayed for removal/rectification of trade mark No. 475267 in Class 9 and trade mark No. 484837 in Class 7 respectively.
5.   On October 11, 1996, the appellant instituted a suit in the Calcutta High Court for perpetual injunction, inter alia, restraining the first respondent from infringing the appellant's mark 'Infosys' by using the mark 'Infosys' by itself or in combination with other marks in course of its trade.
42.  Secondly, and more importantly, during the pendency of the applications, certain events had taken place which had some bearing on the question of locus standi of the first respondent insofar as invocation of Section 46 (1) of The 1958 Act is concerned.
27.  Learned counsel submitted that the fact that the appellant continues to allege and that stance has not changed in the pleadings in SLP as well that the first respondent is an infringer, pilfriger, defrauder, someone who wants to ride on the goodwill of the appellant or someone who wants to mislead the public at large, there is no question of the first respondent ceasing to be a person aggrieved at any stage.
Since the first respondent has also grievance in connection with the impugned order particularly with regard to non- consideration of its case under Section 56 of The 1958 Act, we refrain from going into the merits of the diverse contentions raised before us and leave the parties to agitate these contentions before the IPAB.
In re Apollinaris Company's Trade-Marks, while dealing with this aspect, Kekemich,J. stated : ".....because that is a remedy given to the person aggrieved through the interposition of the Court for the benefit of the 14 (1891) 2 Ch.
In the latter case the locus standi would be ascertained liberally, since it would not only be against the interest of other persons carrying on the same trade but also in the interest of the public to have such wrongful entry removed.
In our opinion the phrase "person aggrieved" for the purposes of removal on the ground of non-use under Section 46 has a different connotation from the phrase used in Section 56 for cancelling or expunging or varying an entry wrongly made or remaining in the Register.
37.  Addisons' application was one under Section 46 and the test to determine whether the applicant was a "person aggrieved" within the meaning of that section should have been the one laid down by Romer, J. in Wright case and not the one propounded by the House of Lords in the matter of Powell's Trade Mark.
23.   On the other hand, an objection is raised in the written submissions on behalf of the first respondent and reference was made in support of the objection to seven Judge Bench decision of this Court in L. Chandrakumar v. Union of India & Ors.  (1997) 3 SCC 261) 1997 Indlaw SC 2816 that challenge to the order of IPAB directly in the appeal before this Court under Article 136 of the Constitution is barred.
In the backdrop of these peculiar facts, in our view, it is not appropriate to relegate the  17 appellant at this distance of time to challenge the impugned order passed by the IPAB in writ petition before the High Court.
v. Addisons Paint & Chemicals Ltd. (2003) 11 SCC 92) 2003 Indlaw SC 756 and (2) Kabushiki Kaisha Toshiba v. Tosiba Appliances Company & Ors.
16.   The IPAB proceeded with the matter in light of the issues that were already framed by the High Court and heard the parties.
Power to cancel or vary registration and to rectify the register.(1) On application made in the prescribed manner to a High Court or to the Registrar by any person aggrieved, the tribunal may make such order as it may think fit for cancelling or varying the registration of a trade mark on the ground of any contravention, or failure to observe a condition entered on the register in relation thereto.
That the first respondent filed composite applications under Sections 46 and 56 of The 1958 Act for rectification/removal of the trade mark 'Infosys' registered in Classes 7, 9 and 16 is not in dispute.
The appellant filed yet another suit (being suit No. 2115 of 2002) before Delhi High Court for infringement of trade mark and passing off against the first respondent.
It was in this sense that the House of Lords defined "person aggrieved" in the matter of Powell's Trade Mark: "... although they were no doubt inserted to prevent officious interference by those who had no interest at all in the register being correct, and to exclude a mere common informer, it is undoubtedly of public interest that they should not be unduly limited, inasmuch as it is a public mischief that there should remain upon the register a mark which ought not to be there, and by which many persons may be affected, who, nevertheless, would not be willing to enter upon the risk and expense of litigation.
In our view, the grievance of the applicant when he invokes Section 46(1) must not only be taken to have existed on the date of making application but must continue to exist when such application is decided.
Whenever it can be shown, as here, that the applicant is in the same trade as the person who has registered the trade mark, and wherever the trade mark, if remaining on the register, would, or might, limit the legal rights of the applicant, so that by reason of the existence of the entry on the register he could not lawfully do that which, but for the existence of the mark upon the register, he could lawfully do, it appears to me he has a locus standi to be heard as a person aggrieved.
Accordingly it is directed that pending further consideration of the matter after notice for the next date of hearing, the defendants are restrained by themselves, their directors, employees, agents and/or others acting on its behalf, from using the trade mark/corporate name INFOSYS or any other mark/name deceptively similar trade mark or colourable imitation thereof as a mark and/or corporate name or as part of a mark and/or business name, in respect of goods and/or services, for publicity on propaganda, on websites and or in domain names, in any way, whatsoever, thereby causing infringement of the registered trade mark INFOSYS of the plaintiff in isolation or in combination with words/letters/numbers their advertisements as part of their corporate name either in isolation or in goods and services, or in or by way of any advertisement/publicity campaigns etc.
Mr. Akhil Sibal argued that the IPAB committed grave error in relying upon the provisions of the 1999 Act and the Trade Marks Rules, 2002 when these provisions were not applicable as the applications were filed under The 1958 Act.
In any case, learned counsel would submit that the expression 'Infosys' is not descriptive expression.
Moreover, there is nothing on record to indicate linkage with the manufacturing or marketing of the goods for which the appellant is holding registration of subject trade marks.
Pertinently, the notice was issued in the petitions for special leave to appeal to the respondents on November 1, 2004.
(2008) 10 SCC 766) 2008 Indlaw SC 1395 19.   Assailing the finding of the IPAB as regards non-use by the appellant during the relevant period, learned counsel for the appellant argued that the said finding was erroneous on legal as well as factual premise.
Limited.
28.   Mr. Vaibhav Gaggar, learned counsel for the first respondent contended that the appellant is registered as a 'manufacturer and trader' under Classes 7, 9 and 16 even though, it is a company engaged in software only.
31.   Having regard to the order that we intend to make, we are not persuaded to accept the objection raised on behalf of the first respondent that present appeal preferred directly before this Court from the impugned order passed by the IPAB is not maintainable and must be dismissed as such.
