(c) of section 299 and cl.
First, it must establish quite objectively, that a bodily injury is present; secondly, the nature of the injury must be proved.
He further stated that Injury No. 1 was sufficient to cause death in the ordinary course of nature.
The first is, what may be called, "culpable homicide of the first degree".
He submitted that since the investigation in the instant case was started by the police without recording an FIR, such an FIR is necessarily hit by the provisions of section 162 of the Cr.
The learned Judge explained the third ingredient in the following words "The question is not whether the prisoner intended to inflict a serious injury or a trivial one but whether he intended to inflict the injury that is proved to be present.
It is also established from the evidence on record for it is clearly stated that the street light having tube light was giving sufficient light to the place of occurrence and that it was directed towards the house which was the place of occurrence.
15.  In the light of the aforesaid submissions of the counsel appearing for the parties we have given our in-depth consideration to the facts of the present case.
He went around the house and saw blood marks on the walls of the verandah and also in the courtyard and came to learn about the incident by using torch light.
In order to verify the information received, PW-21 went to the place of occurrence and found the entire house in total darkness.
(3) of section 300 is one of degree of probability of death resulting from the intended bodily injury.
Investigation, in substance, means collection of evidence relating to the commission of the offence.
The deceased died in the bus at about 10.30 p.m. on 23-6-1998 while travelling to his village home from Tuni.
Such knowledge on the part of the offender must be of the highest degree of probability, the act having been committed by the offender without any excuse for incurring the risk of causing death or such injury as aforesaid.
Factually therefore, there was only one main injury caused due to stabbing and that also was given on the back side of the deceased and therefore, it cannot be said that there was any intention to kill or to inflict an injury of a particular degree of seriousness.
The deceased was taken to the hospital and while so taken he died.
section 300 IPC further provides for the exceptions which will constitute culpable homicide not amounting to murder and punishable section 304.
PW 1 also sustained injuries in the said incident.
If no harassment to the accused results from the action of a police officer how can it be said to defeat the purpose underlying Section 5-A? Looking at the matter this way, I hold that what Mathur did was something very much short of investigation and, therefore, the provisions of Section 5-A were not violated.
(3) of Section 300, instead of the words "likely to cause death" occurring in the corresponding cl.
After reaching the police station and at the request of PW-1 the FIR was recorded at 3.00 a.m. in the morning.
It was submitted by her that the trial court examined the evidence in the present case in a very summary and cryptic manner and thereby arrived at a wrong conclusion that the accused persons were required to be acquitted.
Accused No. 3 had then lit a kerosene lamp and brought the same in the hall.
On medical examination his injury was found to be simple.
Accused No. 3 told the appellant not to do anything in the ceremony and insulted the family members of Rauji.
It is noteworthy that the "intention to cause death" is not an essential requirement of cl.
On his return, he went to take bath and after having bath, he went and switched off the light of the room.
The High Court by impugned judgment convicted appellant (Accused No. 1) section 302 IPC and Accused Nos. 2 and 3 were held guilty of an offence punishable section 323 read with section 34 of the IPC.
He, in his deposition specifically stated that he found that the back door as well as the front door of the house were latched from inside and in front of the house there was a road where there was an electricity pole and there was a street tube light by which the house could be visible and even the lights of the vehicles were flashed at the house.
However, a perusal of record clearly shows that the doctor who conducted the postmortem (PW-7) stated in his evidence that there were in total 16 injuries when external examination was done by him and the knife M. O. 11 could have caused the injuries No. 1, 2, 3 and 4.
In the scheme of the Penal Code, "culpable homicides" is genus and "murder" its specie.
1 to 3.
She has drawn our attention to the findings recorded by the High Court while setting aside the order of acquittal observing that the evidence of eye-witnesses namely PWs.
He received the information about the incident on telephone at about 10.45 p.m. and reached the place of occurrence at about 11.30 p.m. and he must have been there for quite some time and thereafter returned to the police station which must have taken another about 1.30 to 2 hours.
Thus, according to the rule laid down in Virsa Singh case4 even if the intention of the accused was limited to the infliction of a bodily injury sufficient to cause death in the ordinary course of nature, and did not extend to the intention of causing death, the offence would be murder.
Since no irregularity was committed by him there is no occasion to invoke the aid of the curative provisions of the Code." (emphasis underlined) 19.  In the instant case, it is quite clear from the evidence on record that PW-1 received the information about the death of the deceased from PSI of Panaji Police Station without any detail as to how the incident had happened and who had caused the incident.
Counsel for the respondent has, therefore, taken us through the evidence of PWs.
13.  It was further submitted that the alleged eye-witnesses of the occurrence were examined by the police belatedly and that the medical evidence adduced in the case does not in any manner support the ocular evidence and if at all it would not be a case of culpable homicide amounting to murder but a case of culpable homicide not amounting to murder.
Obviously, the distinction lies between a bodily injury likely to cause death and a bodily injury sufficient in the ordinary course of nature to cause death.
Thereafter, the appellant and the two other alleged accused namely, Accused Nos. 2 and 3 and the two juvenile offenders gathered in the hall to assault Rauji, the deceased, PW-1 and PW-8.
Conviction can be made on the basis of such evidence.
PW- 18 rushed to the rescue of deceased Rauji.
So long the defence is not able to establish from the records by cogent evidence that there was any delay in sending the FIR to the Magistrate, it cannot be held that there was any such delay.
They acceded to his request to take the bus to his house.
If he can show that he did not, or if the totality of the circumstances justify such an inference, then, of course, the intent that the section requires is not proved.
PW 1 informed about the incident to PW 2, another son of the deceased.
The conductor of the bus sent an information to the Depot Manager of the State Road Transport Corporation at Tuni.
When he reached at the place of occurrence even the complainant party was not available there but at a later stage they came there.
The word "likely" in cl.
On 19.04.1988 between 8.30 p.m. and 8.45 p.m., Satish Narayan Sawant, the appellant (Accused No. 1) along with two other accused persons and also with two delinquent children allegedly formed an unlawful assembly and that in furtherance of the said common object stabbed one Rauji Dulba Sawant, the deceased and also assaulted Baby Dulba Sawant (PW-1), Ashok Dulba Sawant (PW-2), Kunda Rauji Sawant (PW-8) and Laxmi Dulba Sawant (PW-18) who are the sister, brother, wife and mother respectively of the deceased.
The bare reading of the section makes it crystal clear that the first and the second clause of the section refer to intention apart from the knowledge and the third clause refers to knowledge alone and not intention.
No doubt, for this purpose he has to proceed to the spot where the offence was committed and do various other things.
In the absence of any prohibition in the Code, express or implied, I am of opinion that it is open to a police officer to make preliminary enquiries before registering an offence and making a full scale investigation into it.
He also submitted that if two views are possible and if there are lacunae in the case of the prosecution, the benefit must go to the accused.
No doubt, Section 5-A of the Prevention of Corruption Act was enacted for preventing harassment to a government servant and with this object in view investigation, except with the previous permission of a Magistrate, is not permitted to be made by an officer below the rank of Deputy Superintendent of Police.
An information received in regard to commission of a cognizable offence is not required to be preceded by a first information report.
Besides, the fact of his going to the place of occurrence would not amount to making an investigation.
12.  Mr. R. Sundaravardhan, learned senior counsel appearing for the appellant very forcefully submitted that the High Court was not justified in setting aside the order of acquittal passed in respect of the present appellant.
The dead body of the deceased was brought down from the bus and taken to the house.
In the meantime, PW-1, PW-2 and PW-8 came to the house from whom PW-21 made certain inquiries and brought them along with Accused No. 3 and her two juvenile girls to the Police Station.
In the meantime, police jeep arrived at the scene and on seeing the police jeep, all the accused ran away from the courtyard and went inside.
28.  Before dwelling further into the factual matrix of the case on the basis of which the High Court convicted the appellant section 302 IPC; it would be useful to briefly recapitulate the law on the point.
For the purpose of fixing punishment, proportionate to the gravity of this generic offence, the Code practically recognises three degrees of culpable homicide.
These are purely objective investigations.
He also recovered the knife at the instance of accused Sharmila which he seized.
If the assailant had no such knowledge about the disease or special frailty of the victim, nor an intention to cause death or bodily injury sufficient in the ordinary course of nature to cause death, the offence will not be murder, even if the injury which caused the death, was intentionally given.
There is therefore one particular injury, being injury No. 1 caused because of stabbing and the rest being superficial in nature could be caused during scuffle.
The court would be required to analyse the evidence of related witnesses and those witnesses who are inimically disposed towards the accused.
