Sub-s.
We are concerned in this appeal with the right of Abdul Khader.
It is as follows: "99.
and (4) what share is to be apportioned to successors of Sail Nawaz Jung.
It was in those circumstances held by him that the entry was a spurious one.
He had claimed rights of a protected tenant.
This Court passed the order, on 19th August, 1985.
The arbitrator has done so.
(iii) of cl.
Nothing in this Act shall apply-- To lands leased, granted, alienated or acquired in favour of or by the Central Government or the State Government, a local authority or a Cooperative Society.
The land was taken possession of under a panchanama dated 12th of September, 1963.
The High Court on consideration of these documents was of the view that these documents showed unequivocally that the tenancy was in favour of Shaik Hussain from 1935.
the Central Act was enacted giving power for requisitioning and acquisition of immovable property for Union purposes.
Sd- Tahsildar.
The judgment under appeal was passed on 15th of April, 1986.
section 5 deals with rights over requisitioned property.
We are unable to accept this submission.
This Court by the two orders referred to hereinbefore had also affirmed this position.
We direct that the appellants shall withdraw not more than 40 per cent of the compensation pending disposal of the appeal before the High Court.
10.
18.
13.
Hyderabad West Taluk.
" 3. section 102 of the said Act stipulates that the Act shall not apply to certain lands and areas and provides inter alia as follows: "102.
Andhra Pradesh requested for the requisition of the property named as "Sail Gulshan" with a vast extent of land and palaces with roads and surrounded by a compound wail measuring 19 acres and 10 guntas situated in the heart of Hyderabad city near Sarojini Devi Hospital.
section 37 deals with persons not entitled under section 34 to be deemed in certain circumstances as protected tenants.
17.
16.
15.
14.
12.
11.
" 9.
8.
" 7.
" 6.
" 5.
" 4.
2.
Subs.
1.
Determination by the revenue authorities and non-determination is not conclusive or decisive.
Appeal dismissed.
The document recited: "permitted to utilise garden fruits, flowers and mango fruits".
His claim for compensation for requisition was settled by sharing the rent in or about 1969.
and on -S. 99 of the Act which bars the jurisdiction of civil courts to deal with any question which is under the Andhra Pradesh Act required to be settled, to be decided or dealt with by the Tahsildar, Tribunal or Collector.
The matter was brought to this Court by a special leave application and this Court in Special Leave Petition (Civil) No. 10 of 1975 on or about 30th January.
Nos. 4692 to 4694 of 1985 clarified and ob- served that there was no need for further clarification.
On or about 23rd of August, 1963 the Military Estate Officer, Secunderabad of.
(1) of section 34 of Act 21 of 1950.
The Land Acquisition Officer or the Court, as the case may be, had to ascertain the value of a claimant's right in the property acquired and compensate him in that behalf.
The High Court took into consideration the judgment in Suit No. 13(1) of 195 1-52 by the tenant.
He had jurisdiction to do so.
The appeals were disposed of accordingly.
The tenant was permitted to raise flower trees at his own expenses.
Section 37A was enacted on 12th of March, 1956.
The High Court discussed 18 documents out of which two are challans and other depositions.
(2) of section 40 of the said Act indicates who are the heirs who would be entitled to hold the tenancy on the death of the protected tenant and on what terms.
The appeal is heard.
On or about th of April.
The said order is important and reads as follows:- "Special leave are granted.
It is relevant at this stage to refer to certain provisions of the Central Act to consider the controversy involved in this appeal.
The High Court has so held.
In the judgment under appeal which is directed against the award made by the arbitrator formulated the following four issues--(1) what is the value of the land; (2) who are entitled to the compensation amount; (3) whether Abdul Khader is a protected tenant of Sail Gulshan of the area 19-02 guntas excluding the land of buildings, wells, etc.
The purpose of the said Act as the Preamble states was, inter alia, to enable the land- holders to prevent the excessive sub-division of agricultural holdings and empower government to assume in certain circumstances the management of agricultural lands, to provide for the registration of Co-operative Farms and to make further provision for matters incidental thereto.
In that view of the matter we must uphold that decision however unsatisfactory it might appear that a fruit pucker gets 60% of the compensation while the owners get only If that is the law let it be.
We are also not concerned with this aspect of the matter inasmuch as the same is the subject matter of another appeal being Civil Appeal No. 4406 of 1986.
section 9 deals with the payment of compensation and provides that the amount of compensation payable under an award shall, subject to any rules made under that Act, be paid by a competent authority to the person or persons entitled thereto in such manner and within such time as may be specified in the award.
The High Court was, however, of the view that it cannot be said that it was for the revenue authorities alone to decide the issue because the arbitrator was ordered to decide the issue by the High Court on 19th August, 1974 and by this Court on 30th of January, 1975.
The appellant objected to that application but the High Court on 1st April, 1985 appointed Advocate Commissioner to record additional evidence.
Reference may be made to the decision in the case of Archi Appalareddi and another v. Special Tahsildar, land Acquisition, Visakhapatnam Municipality and mother, [1979] Andhra Weekly Reporter, Vol.
The entries of this particular so called tenant is doubtful.
The High Court further modified a portion of the order in view of the decision of this Court in Bhag Singh v. Union Territory of Chandigarh, A.I.R. 1985 S.C. 1576 1985 Indlaw SC 246 on the question of solarium and interest on the amount awarded.
The controversy in this case relates to the question whether Abdul Khader was 'a protected tenant' under the Andhra Pradesh (Telangana Area) Tenancy and Agricultural Lands Act, 1950 being Act No. XXI of 1950 (hereinafter called the Andhra Pradesh Act).
Suspecting that the entry in the Protected Tenancy Register might not be genuine, on or about 24th of October, 1970 the Tahsildar passed an order cancelling that entry.
The Gazette Notification for the acquisition was issued on 12th March, 1970.
There being no such finding by the revenue officer, on the other hand there being a finding mat Abdul Khader was not a protected tenant by the revenue authorities it was not open to the arbitrator to decide the question of protected tenancy.
He held further that Khasra Pahani which is the basic record of occupancy period after spot inspections does not find the name of Abdul Khader and further held that all entries except this entry in the Protected Tenancy Register prepared under section 37A of the Andhra Pradesh Act was supported by an enquiry.
1948 Sail Nawaz Jung, the then ruler of Mukkalla State, South Yeman in Arabia settled some of the properties with which the appeal is concerned by a Registered Tamleeknama in favour of his son Sultan Awaz and his grandson Galib Bin Awaz.
(2) of section 35 stipulates that a declaration by the Tahsildar that the person is deemed to be a protected tenant or, in the event of an appeal from the Tahsildar's decision such declaration by the Collector on first appeal or by the Board of Revenue on second appeal, shall be conclusive that such person is a protected tenant and his rights as such shall be recorded in the Record of Right of where there is no Record of Rights in such village record as may be prescribed.
The remaining 60 per cent shall be disbursed in accordance with the directions to be given by the High Court after hearing all the parties concerned.
In the aforesaid view of the matter this appeal must fail and is accordingly dismissed with costs.
Furthermore, under section 99 of the Andhra Pradesh Act the bar was not against the arbitrator but against a civil court.
This appeal arises out of the said judgment.
This order of cancellation was challenged by Abdul Khadar by filing a writ petition in the High Court of Andhra Pradesh being W .P. No. 1786 of 197 1 and by judgment and order passed on 27th August, 197 1, the learned single Judge, Vaidya, J. held, inter alia, as follows: "Whether the petitioner (Abdul Khader) is a protected tenant or whether he has any prima facie interest in the suit property are matters entirely within the sole jurisdiction of the arbitrator who has to be appointed under section 8 of the 'Central Act'.
Hence I suspect the entry and order to cancel the copy of the tenancy issued in favour of Sri Modh.
In another context, the High Court of Andhra Pradesh enunciated the position that it was necessary to determine the interest of the persons claiming compensation.
That in any event what was the interest of Abdul Khader had to be determined in determining the question of payment of compensation to him and in so determining the facts and circumstances and the proceedings before the revenue authorities and entries and subsequent deletions had to be taken into consideration by the arbitrator.
