However, arguments were heard only on the following three issues: Issue No.1:- Whether the Hon ble Arbitral Tribunal has no jurisdiction to adjudicate upon the dispute between the Claimant and the Respondent for the period September, 1998 to August, 1999 in respect of the vessel Jag Praja for the reasons stated in para 1 of the written statement? Issue No.2:- Whether there is any common practice that if the vessel is not re-delivered at the end of the period mentioned in the time charter the vessel would be governed by the charter party under which originally it was chartered? Issue No.5:- Whether the time charter party dated 6th May, 1997 came to an end by efflux of time on 30th August, 1998? 13.
Admittedly, after 31st August, 1998, re- delivery of vessel did not take place and, therefore, in terms of clause 23, the vessel continued to be hired on the same terms and conditions except the term as to the hire charges, on which there was disagreement between the parties.
4.1 and 23 would by itself be a dispute arising under the said Charter Party .
Claims and counter claims were filed before the Arbitral Tribunal.
Vide letter of even date, i.e. 4th January, 1999, the appellant suggested to the respondent that in the absence of a formal charter party with effect from 1st September, 1998, a provisional arrangement for a period of four months effective from 1st September, 1998 with an option for extension of one month may be mutually agreed to by payment at the rate of 80% on charter hire prevailing on 30th June, 1998, as ad hoc hire.
With respect, the learned Arbitral Tribunal overlooked this aspect of the matter.
While disapproving in principle, the action of the IOC in inviting fresh price bids after opening the bids, but without recording final opinion on the merits of the issues raised in writ petition, the Court disposed of the petition, inter alia, directing that (i) the charter hire rates should be fixed by the Tender Evaluation Committee and (ii) as the tender was for the period ending 31st August, 1999 and the writ petition was being decided on 20th August, 1999, the IOC will not be required to enter into a contract for the period from 1st September, 1998 to 31st August, 1999.
According to the Tribunal on and after 1st September, 1998, charter party agreement dated 6th May, 1997 was superseded by a fresh agreement and a term of the agreement was that the charter hire rate would be determined by the Oil Co-ordination Committee of the IOC.
Having come to the conclusion that an arbitration agreement existed between the parties, the question which remains to be considered is whether the disputes between the parties should be referred to the same Arbitral Tribunal which had come to the conclusion that in the absence of any arbitration agreement it did not have jurisdiction to entertain and try the claims and counter claims.
Therefore, the factual scenario in the instant case leads to an inescapable conclusion that notwithstanding the expiry of the period fixed in the time charter party dated 6th May, 1997, the said charter party did not get extinguished, inter alia, for the purpose of determination of the disputes arising thereunder and the arbitration clause contained therein could be invoked by the respondent.
What is in dispute is whether the arbitration agreement between the parties had got extinguished after 31st August, 1998, i.e. the date of expiry of the extended period of the Charter Party.
In support of the proposition that the concurrence of a party can be gathered from his conduct, like continued user of the vessel in the present case, without any objection to respondent s letter dated 4th January, 1999, reliance is placed on a decision of this Court in The Godhra Electricity Co. Ltd. & Anr.
In response to the said tender, the respondent and other vessel owners submitted their bids.
We may examine the issue from another angle, based on respondent s stand that charter party dated 6th May, 1997 continues to be in vogue till the chartered vessel is re- delivered.
The respondent responded immediately vide their letter dated 5th November, 1998, agreeing in principle that revised charter hire rates, as and when finalized in response to tender floated by the IOC on 1st September, 1998, would be applicable to the vessels which are selected under the tender, retrospectively from 1st September, 1998.
Delivery & Redelivery 4.1 The vessel shall continue to be on charter to charterers in direct continuation from 2348 hrs.
It appears that the respondent did not respond to the said suggestion by the appellant but all the same its vessel continued to be on charter with the appellant.
Mr. Shyam Divan, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent, on the other hand, submitted that notwithstanding the fact that the period fixed originally under the Charter Party or under the Addendum dated 29th June, 1998 had come to an end, the subsequent conduct of the parties goes to show that charter of the vessel by the appellant beyond 31st August, 1998 continued to be governed by the terms and conditions stipulated in charter party dated 6th May, 1997 and, therefore, an arbitration agreement did exist between the parties.
The Registry is directed to communicate this order to the learned Members of the Arbitral Tribunal to enable them to enter upon the Reference and decide the matter as expeditiously as practicable.
It appears that since Charter Party dated 6th May, 1997 was coming to an end on 31st August, 1998, the Oil Companies sought permission of the Oil Co-ordination Committee, a wing of the Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas for further extension of the Charter Party.
In this context, it would be appropriate to refer to Cls. 4 and 23 of the Charter Party dated 6th May, 1997.
We are, therefore, of the opinion that though performance of the Charter Party agreement dated 6th May, 1997 may have come to an end on 31st August, 1998 but it was still in existence for some purposes, viz. the effect of vessel s non re-delivery as per the prescribed mechanism and its continued use beyond the stipulated time and, thus, the arbitration clause in the said Charter Party operated in respect of these and other allied purposes.
It appears to us that even the question in regard to the effect and consequences of non- delivery of the vessel in terms of the Cl.
However, the Arbitral Tribunal answered the said issue against the respondent.
It is clear from the pleadings and issue No.2, framed by the Arbitral Tribunal, that it was respondent s consistent stand that since the hired vessel had not been re-delivered at the end of the time charter party, the vessel would be governed by the terms and conditions in the Charter Party dated 6th May, 1997.
4.1 of the Charter Party, the appellant cannot plead that the Charter Party had been fully worked out.
Indisputably, the vessel in question had not been re-delivered at least during the relevant period and the appellant continued to use the vessel beyond 31st August, 1998.
On a conjoint reading of the said clauses, it is plain that the appellant was under an obligation to re- deliver the vessel as per the procedure contemplated in the afore-noted clauses.
4 hereof should the vessel be upon voyage at the expiry of the period of this charter, Charterers shall have the use of vessel at the same rate and conditions for such extended time as may be necessary for the completion of the round voyage on which she is engaged and her return to a port of redelivery as provided by the Charter.
4.2 Charterers to load last three cargoes clean and re-deliver the vessel in clean condition".
The vessel shall be re-delivered by charterers to owners on dropping last outward pilot at any port on west coast of India at charterers option.
They accepted the stand of the respondent sub silentio and thus, continued to bind themselves by other terms and conditions contained in the Charter Party dated 6th May, 1997, which obviously included the arbitration clause.
Nevertheless, the appellant continued to use the vessel on hire with them under the time charter dated 6th May, 1997.
Yet again while responding to appellant s fax dated 31st December, 1998, whereby the respondent was required to sign a provisional charter party by 4th January, 1999, vide their letter dated 4th January, 1999, the respondent, pointed out to the appellant that usual practice is that pending finalization of the new Charter, the existing terms and conditions of the Charter Party continue to apply and, therefore, they were willing to sign the agreement as contemplated by the appellant based on the existing terms and conditions.
On receipt of the said letter, the respondent vide their letter dated 5th November, 1998, protested against the revision of the rates for the vessel not being considered under the new bid and stated in unequivocal terms that it was not possible for them to accept the proposal of the Oil Co-ordination Committee, communicated to them vide letter dated 12th October, 1998.
As noted above, after the extended period of Charter Party dated 6th May, 1997 had come to an end on 31st August, 1998 and the bids received pursuant to fresh invitation were pending finalization, vide their letter dated 12th October, 1998, the respondent had informed the appellant that they were agreeable to apply new rates for use of the vessel from 1st July, 1998 provided all the nine vessels are used.
It is, no doubt, true that the general rule is that an offer is not accepted by mere silence on the part of the offerree, yet it does not mean that an acceptance always has to be given in so many words.
Before we proceed to examine the rival stands, we may note, at the outset, that neither the Arbitral Tribunal nor the High Court have gone into the question whether the claim made by the respondent would otherwise fall within the ambit of the arbitration clause in the Charter Party or not.
Thus, the short question for determination is whether on the expiry of the extended period of charter hire on 31st August, 1998, Charter Party dated 6th May, 1997 came to an end and the arbitration agreement between the parties perished with it? 18.
It was pointed out that all the obligations of the owners as well as of the charterers during the period the vessel was in use continued to be discharged under the Charter Party dated 6th May, 1997 even after the expiry of the period of the Charter Party.
Learned counsel argued that even otherwise till the vessel was not re-delivered in terms of Cls. 4 and 23 of Charter Party dated 6th May, 1997, the said agreement could not come to an end.
