If the Appellants were appointed for the purpose of the project, they would be deemed to have been appointed therefor and only because such appointments had been made by the Respondent would by itself not entitle them to claim permanency.
No material was placed before the High Court as to the nature of the duties of either categories and it is not possible to hold that the principle of "equal pay for equal work" is an abstract one.
For the purpose of invoking the said doctrine, the nature of the work and responsibility attached to the post are some of the factors which were bound to be taken into consideration.
They were not, therefore, entitled to take the recourse of the doctrine of 'equal pay for equal work' as adumbrated in articles 14 and 39(d) of the Constitution of India.
They were not appointed in terms of the provisions of the statute.
In the instant case, the Industrial Tribunal did not draw any adverse inference against the Appellant.
Considering these facts in our view drawing of an adverse inference for the non- production of the Muster Rolls for the years 1991-92, is wholly erroneous on the part of the Industrial Court and the High Court.
As stated above, between the period 1987 to 1990, as a matter of fact, till end of the year 1990 the respondents have not been able to establish the case of continuous work for 240 days.
In absence of any pleadings, the Appellants could not have called for any document to show that the provisions of the 1961 Act and 1963 Rules would apply.
It is accepted at the Bar, when the endorsement on the application filed by Om Prakash Mondloi was shown that the appointment letters were not issued.
The witness examined on behalf of the Respondents, although at one stage stated that the appointment letters had been issued to them, upon going through the records brought with him, however, asserted that no such appointment letter was issued.
The life of the project came to an end on 30.6.1997.
The project was indisputably to be executed by the Indore Development Authority; and for the implementation thereof, the appointments had to be made by it.
The Appellants did not adduce any evidence as regard nature of their employment or the classification under which they were appointed.
We have noticed the provisions of the Act and the Rules.
If by reason of the latter, the appointment is invalid, the same cannot be validated by taking recourse to regularization.
But in absence of any conflict in the provisions of the said Act, the conditions of service including those relating to recruitment as provided for in the 1973 Act and the 1987 Rules would apply.
In absence of any specific directions contained in the schedule appended to the Standing Orders, the statute and the statutory rules applicable to the employees of the Respondent shall prevail.
The Appellants have not produced any such ticket.
The said seniority list was not prepared in terms of the classification of employees within the meaning of the 1961 Act and the rules framed there under but was based on the date of joining probably for the purpose of maintenance of records.
Who made the appointments of the Appellants to the Project or other works carried on by the Authority is not known.
Even the appointments to the local cadre must be made by the Authority.
The 1961 Act provides for classification of employees in five categories.
(2) of section 6 reads as under : "Where immediately before the commencement of this Act standing order are in force in respect of any undertaking, such standing orders shall, until standard standing orders are applied to such undertaking under sub-s.
By reason of the provisions of the said Act, application of Standard Standing Orders to undertakings has been provided in terms whereof the matters to be provided in the Standard Standing Orders have been specified.
In Hindustan Shipyard Ltd. 1996 Indlaw SC 3441 (supra) this Court also distinguished the said decision.
It was, therefore, impermissible for the State to direct regularization of the services of the employees of the cooperative societies.
It is also not in dispute that the State Government in exercise of its rule making power conferred upon it section 85 of the Adhiniyam has made rules known as 'M.P. Development Authority Services (Officers and Servants) Recruitment Rules, 1987.
DETERMINATION : The Respondent-Authority is a State within the meaning of article 12 of the Constitution of India.
(i) A 'permanent' employee is one who has completed six months' satisfactory service in a clear vacancy in one or more posts whether as a probationer or otherwise, or a person whose name has been entered in the muster roll and who is given a ticket of permanent employee; (vi) 'Temporary employee' means an employee who has been employed for work which is essentially of a temporary character, or who is temporarily employed as an additional employee in connection with the temporary increase in the work of a permanent nature; provided that in case such employee is required to work continuously for more than six months he shall be deemed to be a permanent employee, within the meaning of cl.
Drawing our attention also to the pleadings as also the reliefs claimed for by the Appellants before the Labour Court, the learned counsel would contend that no contention was raised therein by the Appellants as regard their entitlement of permanency in terms of the provisions of the 1961 Act and the 1963 Rules.
Our attention was also drawn to the application dated 22.10.1991 filed by one O.P. Mandloi before the Chairman of the Indore Development Authority disclosing his educational qualifications and enclosing therewith the mark-sheets and degrees obtained by him in Civil Engineering and also Secondary School Examination Certificate to show his date of birth whereupon the Chief Executive Officer on the body of the said application itself, made the following endorsement : "He may be tried in daily wages and should be entrusted with the work of progress collection of ODA work put with (Illegible).
The learned counsel would submit that in fact no appointment letter was issued to the Appellants.
Mr. V.R. Reddy, learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the Respondents, on the other hand, would contend that indisputably the Appellants were engaged by the Respondent-Authority but such appointments were made for the purpose of the Project financed by ODA.
Dr. Dhawan would furthermore contend that the findings of fact had been arrived at by the Labour Court that the Appellants of Civil Appeal No.337 of 2002 were appointed by the Authority and not only their work was being taken in the Project but also in other works, and, thus, mere posting of the Appellants to the said Project would not disentitle them from the benefit of the said Act.
The learned counsel would argue that the job was required to be performed for six months for which somebody else could have been appointed so as to attract the provisions of the 1961 Act and the 1963 Rules.
SUBMISSIONS : Dr. Rajiv Dhawan, learned Senior Counsel, appearing on behalf of the Appellants in Civil Appeal No.337 of 2002 and Mr. M.N. Rao, learned Senior Counsel, appearing on behalf of the Appellants in Civil Appeal No.335 of 2002, took us through materials on records and contended that the Appellants herein became 'permanent employees' of the Respondents having regard to the provisions contained in section 2 of the 1961 Act and Order 2(i) and 2(vi) of the Standard Standing Orders as set out in the Annexure appended to the 1963 Rules defining 'permanent employees' and the 'temporary employees'.
Before the High Court various documents were produced by the Appellants herein to show the nature of their employment, but the same had not been taken on records by the High Court.
As regard the application of the Madhya Pradesh Industrial Employment (Standing Orders) Act, 1961 (for short, 'the 1961 Act') and the Rules framed there under known as 'M.P. Industrial Employment (Standing Order) Rules, 1963 (for short, 'the 1963 Rules'), it was observed that although there was no specific pleadings raised in this behalf by the Respondents therein nor any question having been referred to the Labour Court by the State Government touching the said issue, it committed an error in granting relief to them on the basis thereof on its own motion.
It was held that the services of the Appellants cannot be directed to be regularized in services.
The ODA Project is said to have been completed and only the maintenance thereof was to be looked after by the Indore Municipal Corporation.
Aggrieved by and dissatisfied with the said Award, the Respondent- Authority herein filed a writ petition before the Madhya Pradesh High Court, Indore Bench, which was marked as Writ Petition No.1188 of 1997.
There is no difference in their work and the work of the employees of Indore Development Authority.
