V. State of Bihar (2002) 1 SCC 679 2001 Indlaw SC 21243, and R.R.Khanna Reddy & Anr.
The lacerated wound was found over grabella (middle of forehead).
Immediate death following a firearm wound is uncommon and even when vital organs are injured, a person may be capable of doing extraordinary things.
Even I do not know who took me to hospital.
The skin around the entry wound shows characteristic blackening, scorching and tattooing.
The place of injury is also important.
It is true that in a case relating to circumstantial evidence motive does assume great importance but to say that the absence of motive would dislodge the entire prosecution story is perhaps giving this one factor an importance which is not due and (to use the clichi) the motive is in the mind of the accused and can seldom be fathomed with any degree of accuracy.
The story of rape by me with her has been fabricated by her husband as he is inimical towards me.
We are of the opinion, however, that no adverse inference can be drawn from either of these circumstances.
The aforesaid convictions and sentences have been maintained by the High Court and the matter is before us in these proceedings by way of special leave.
It may be noted here that this Court indicated that the circumstances concerned 'must or should' and not 'may be' established.
It would be seen that both the Sessions Court and the High Court were appalled by the allegations and findings of incestuous rape and murder.
In homicidal and accidental shooting, the wound may be on any part of the body and the path of the bullet may be in any direction.
With knife throat and wrist are the favourite sites.
The post-mortem examination was also conducted by PW5 Dr. Ishwar Singh, Medical Officer, Civil Hospital along with Dr. Harwinder Kaur PW17 and it was found that Mukhtiar Kaur had two gunshot injuries on her dead body, a wound of entry on the back of right side of chest 2 cm x 1 cm with margining  and blackening and a corresponding exit wound of 5 cm x 3.5 cm to the front of the right side of the chest.
He has also relied on the judgment of Balu Sonba Shinde v. State of Maharashtra (2002) 7 SCC 543 2002 Indlaw SC 1923 to contend that it was open to the accused to take advantage (insofar as possible) from the statement of a witness though declared hostile and the four witnesses having disowned the prosecution story and having given a different version, the appellant was entitled to derive such benefit as possible in this situation.
Even otherwise, we are of the opinion that had the shot been fired by some intruder, the direction would have been more or less horizontal and parallel to the ground and not from down upwards with the pellets hitting the jaw, skirting the cheek and hitting the roof at point E. In Modi's Medical Jurisprudence and Toxicology (23rd Edition) at page 765 while dealing with identification of homicidal and suicidal injuries it has been observed that : "A suicidal firearm wound is usually a contact wound situated on the side of the temple, depending on which hand was used to shoot himself, in the centre of the forehead, the roof of the mouth, in the chest or epigastrium in front or the left side and some times under the chin.
A small weapon like a revolver or a pistol is held in the hand, while a rifle or a shot gun is supported on the ground or against the wall.
The aforesaid articles had been carried to the Laboratory by Constable Gopal Singh who in his affidavit dated 17th March 2003 deposed that he had first taken the articles to the laboratory on 9th December 2002 but they had been returned by the Director on the ground that the seals affixed thereon were not of the requisite number and that after removing the objections raised by the Director, the articles aforesaid had been returned to the laboratory on 18th December 2002.
25.  The question now arises as to the sentence that should be imposed on the appellant.
In 1984 (4) SCC 116 Sharad Birdhichand Sarda v. State of Maharashtra 1984 Indlaw SC 432, this Court discussed the ratio of the judgments in Hanumant v. State of M.P. AIR 1952 SC 343 1952 Indlaw SC 89, Tufail (Alias) Simmi v. State of U.P. (1969) 3 SCC 198 1969 Indlaw SC 573 and Ramgopal v. State of Maharashtra (1972) 4 SCC 625 1971 Indlaw SC 555 and Shivaji Sahabrao Bobade v. State of Maharashtra (1973) 2 SCC 793 1973 Indlaw SC 181 and observed thus: "A close analysis of this decision would show that the following conditions must be fulfilled before a case against an accused can be said to be fully established: (1)the circumstances from which the conclusion of guilt is to be drawn should be fully established.
The fact that the shot was fired from below going upwards is also supported by the site plan Exh.
Dr. Harwinder Kaur aforesaid also took swabs from the vagina of the deceased and as per the chemical examiner's report dated 2.1.2003 semen was found on the swab taken from the vagina and from the underwear that Mukhtiar Kaur had been wearing at the time of her death.
18.  Mr. Goburdhan has also laid much stress on the apparent discordance between the prosecution story and the medical evidence and has argued that had the accused attempted to commit suicide, the gun shot must, of necessity, had to be fired from a very close range on which the wound would have marks of burning or charring and that in any event a full blooded shot from a very close range would have torn his face apart.
With this modification, the appeal is dismissed.
Jora Singh also met Inspector Harjinder Pal Singh PW14 at 4.40 p.m. near the hospital, who recorded his statement at that place and with his endorsement Ex.
It is in this background that we must examine the circumstances in the present case.
7.  Mr. Goburdhan, the learned counsel for the accused has raised several arguments in the course of hearing.
Some suspicions of rape could perhaps have been raised had some tell tale injuries been detected on Mukhtiar Kaur's person but we find that the two injuries other than the gun shot wounds i.e. injury No.3 being on the left pinna and No. 4 an abrasion near the right eye do not indicate any attempt to rape or the commission of rape.
Satnam Singh conveyed this information to Sarpanch Jora Singh PW1 who was attending a marriage at that time.
It, therefore, cannot be a case where the death might have been caused by somebody by firing a shot at the deceased from a distance of more than 6 feet.
The learned State counsel relying on the statement of PW14 Inspector Harjinder Pal Singh has however submitted that the examination had not been possible as the appellant had received a very serious gun shot injury and was hanging between life and death.
He has also drawn our attention to the cross- examination of the Doctor wherein he reiterated that there was no visible blackening and that it was not possible for him to say whether the injury was suicidal or otherwise.
I was treating Mukhtiar Kaur as my daughter and loved her as my daughter.
(2)the facts so established should be consistent only with the hypothesis of the guilt of the accused, that is to say, they should not be explainable on any other hypothesis except that the accused is guilty, (3)the circumstances should be of a conclusive nature and tendency, (4)they should exclude every possible hypothesis except the one to be proved, and (5)there must be a chain of evidence so complete as not to leave any reasonable ground for the conclusion consistent with the innocence of the accused and must show that in all human probability the act must have been done by the accused.
The prosecution also relied on the statements of Dr. Vijay Kumar PW6 of the Civil Hospial, Dhuri who testified that the appellant had been brought to the hospital at about 2.45 p.m. on 10.11.2002 with a serious gun shot injury, Dr. Ripan Miglani PW15 of the Dayanand Medical College & Hospital, Ludhiana who deposed that he had been admitted to the department of Neuro surgery with a serious gun shot injury and Dr. Sanjay Uppal PW16, a plastic surgeon who disclosed that the appellant had been under his treatment for almost 5 weeks and the burnt area around the firearm injury had been removed by him.
