The Constitution Benches of this Court in Supreme Court Bar Assn.
The said power is not vested with any other court.
c) In a case of corruption by public servant, quantum of amount is immaterial.
However, proviso to sub-s.
v. Official Liquidator (2004) 9 SCC 741 2004 Indlaw SC 277, State of Karnataka v. Ameerbi (2007) 11 SCC 681 2006 Indlaw SC 999, Union of India v. Shardindu (2007) 6 SCC 276 2007 Indlaw SC 537 and Bharat Sewa Sansthan v. U.P. Electronics Corpn.
Indeed this Court is not a court of restricted jurisdiction of only dispute settling.
The very nature of the power must lead the court to set limits for itself within which to exercise those powers and ordinarily it cannot disregard a statutory provision governing a subject, except perhaps to balance the equities between the conflicting claims of the litigating parties by "ironing out the creases" in a cause or matter before it.
20.  In Mota Ram vs State of Haryana, (2009) 12 SCC 727 2009 Indlaw SC 682, this Court, while reiterating the above principles has concluded that article 142 cannot be exercised to negate the statutory provisions.
Brief facts: "(a) The appellant-accused was working as a Head Clerk in the Traffic Cadre Section in the Office of the Senior Divisional Personnel Officer, South Central Railway, Vijayawada during the period from April, 1992 to November, 1997.
12.  About the request based on delay that the appellant has lost his job, undergone the ordeal all along etc.
In Anjana Kishore v. Puneet Kishore (2002) 10 SCC 194 2001 Indlaw SC 21204, this Court while allowing a transfer petition directed the court concerned to decide the case of divorce by mutual consent, ignoring the statutory requirement of moving the motion after expiry of the period of six months under Section 13-B(2) of the Act.
Generally, no court has competence to issue a direction contrary to law nor can the court direct an authority to act in contravention of the statutory provisions.
17.  In Teri Oat Estates (P) Ltd. v. UT, Chandigarh (2004) 2 SCC 130 2003 Indlaw SC 1504 this Court held as under: " ... sympathy or sentiment by itself cannot be a ground for passing an order in relation whereto the appellants miserably fail to establish a legal right. ... despite an extraordinary constitutional jurisdiction contained in article 142 of the Constitution of India, this Court ordinarily would not pass an order which would be in contravention of a statutory provision.
In the reported case, the appeal was against the concurrent finding of both the courts convicting the appellant section 302 IPC and sentencing him to suffer imprisonment for life.
6.  It is not in dispute that the provisions of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 alone are applicable since the incident occurred on 14.11.1997 i.e. subsequent to the Act.
After recording the statements of the witnesses, Inspector of Police, CBI, Visakhapatnam filed charge sheet being No. 2/98-YTR dated 29.04.1998 against the appellant-accused for an offence punishable under Sections 7, 13(1)(d)(ii) read with section 13(2) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 (hereinafter referred to as "the Act") in the Court of Special Judge for CBI Cases at Visakhapatnam.
Later, PW-1 was transferred to Vijayawada.
In Anil Kumar Jain, this Court held that an order of waiving the statutory requirements can be passed only by this Court in exercise of its powers article 142 of the Constitution.
Notice only on quantum of sentence-hearing on all aspects-Permissibility: 3.  On 28.01.2008, this Court consisting of three Hon'ble Judges issued notice in this matter confining to the quantum of sentence only.
However, the court rejected the said application vide order dated 01.12.2009 observing that the court was not competent to waive the required statutory period of six months under the Act and such a waiver was permissible only under the directions of the Supreme Court as held by this Court in Anil Kumar Jain vs Maya Jain, (2009) 10 SCC 415 2009 Indlaw SC 1494.
However, these are the cases, where this Court came to rescue the parties on the ground for divorce not provided for by the legislature in the statute.
This Court, referred to the Supreme Court Rules, 1966 which have been framed article 145 of the Constitution and also considered scope of its power article 142 as well as Order 47 Rule 6 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (in short 'the Code).
Again a day after i.e. on 13.11.1997, when he met the appellant-accused, he informed him that his request for transfer has been processed and the order is ready and the same has been placed before the A.P.O. for signature and asked him to come on the next day, i.e., on 14.11.1997, and demanded Rs.200/- for releasing the said office order.
It further shows that the Court considered the plea of the appellant therein for acquittal despite the fact that the notice was limited in terms of the order dated 27.07.2009.
v. Union of India (1998) 4 SCC 409 1998 Indlaw SC 688 and E.S.P. Rajaram v. Union of India (2001) 2 SCC 186 2001 Indlaw SC 20411 held that article 142 of the Constitution, this Court cannot altogether ignore the substantive provisions of a statute and pass orders concerning an issue which can be settled only through a mechanism prescribed in another statute.
If the said offence/charge is proved, the court has no other option but to impose sentence of imprisonment which shall be not less than six months but which may extend to five years and also liable to fine.
section 7 of the Act relates to public servant taking gratification other than legal remuneration in respect of an official act.
When he met him on 10.11.1997, the appellant asked him to come on the next day as he was busy in pay-fixation work.
The question whether the Court will enlarge the scope of its inquiry at the time of final hearing depends on the facts and circumstances of the case.
In June, 1997, due to excess staff at Tanuku, he was instructed to report at Head Quarters, Vijayawada and accordingly, when he reported there, he was asked to go back to Tanuku.
Similar request was made before the Bench that the appellant was entitled to urge all the questions including his right to urge that he should have been acquitted in the facts and circumstances of the case.
The parties moved another HMA No. 457 of 2009 to waive the statutory period of six months in filing the second petition.
With this factual position, let us consider whether the request of the learned senior counsel for the appellant is to be accepted and sentence be reduced to the period already undergone.
The High Court, as an appellate Court, once again analysed all the material, discussed the oral and documentary evidence and finding that the prosecution had proved the guilt of the accused beyond reasonable doubt concurred with the conclusion arrived at by the trial Court and dismissed the appeal of the appellant.
In Kalyan Chandra Sarkar v. Rajesh Ranjan : 2005 (3) SCC 284 2005 Indlaw SC 93, this Court after reiterating that this Court in exercise of its jurisdiction article 142 of the Constitution would not pass any order which would amount to supplanting substantive law applicable to the case or ignoring express statutory provisions dealing with the subject, observed as follows: It may therefore be understood that the plenary powers of this Court article 142 of the Constitution are inherent in the Court and are complementary to those powers which are specifically conferred on the Court by various statutes though are not limited by those statutes .
Since in the facts of this case, we find that the appellant should be heard on all points, we have come to the aforesaid conclusion." (Emphasis supplied) It is clear that the Bench itself has clarified that they are not laying down the law that in spite of issuing notice confining to a particular aspect (in the case on hand - "quantum of sentence") the parties are entitled to urge all points and re- open the case as if they are free to do the same without any restriction.
There is no dispute as regards the date of occurrence and the date of conviction passed by the trial court and affirmed by the High Court.
h) The power article 142 of the Constitution is a constitutional power and not restricted by statutory enactments.
(g) Against the said order, the appellant-accused filed Criminal Appeal No. 436 of 2001 before the High Court of Andhra Pradesh.
The High Court, by impugned judgment dated 03.10.2007 dismissed the appeal filed by the appellant- accused and confirmed the conviction passed by the trial Court.
For clarity, we reproduce the said section hereunder: " Criminal misconduct by a public servant.- (1) A public servant is said to commit the offence of criminal misconduct, (a) If he habitually accepts or obtains or agrees to accept or attempts to obtain from any person for himself or for any other person any gratification other than legal remuneration as a motive or reward such as is mentioned in Section 7; or (b) If he habitually accepts or obtains or agrees to accept or attempts to obtain for himself or for any other person, any valuable thing without consideration or for a consideration which he knows to be inadequate from any person whom he knows to have been, or to be, or to be likely to he concerned in any proceeding or business transacted or about to be transacted by him or having any connection with the official functions of himself or of any public servant to whom he is subordinate, or from any, person whom he knows to be interests in or related to the person so concerned; or (c) If he dishonestly or fraudulently misappropriates or otherwise converts for his own use any property entrusted to him or under his control as a public servant or allows any other person so to do; or (d) If he, - (i) By corrupt or illegal means, obtains for himself or for any other person any valuable thing or Pecuniary advantage; or (ii) By abusing his position as a public servant, obtains for himself or for any other person any valuable thing or pecuniary advantage; or (iii) While holding office as a public servant, obtains for any person any valuable thing or pecuniary advantage without any public interest; or (e) If he or any person on his behalf, is in possession or has, at any time during the Period of his office, been in possession for which the public servant cannot satisfactorily account, of pecuniary resources or property disproportionate to his known sources of income.
Inasmuch as the conviction on both counts have been confirmed by this Court and we are confined to sentence part alone and in view of the minimum sentence prescribed sections 7 and 13 of the Act, we are of the view that though long delay may be a ground for reduction of sentence in other cases, the same may not be applicable to the case on hand when the statute prescribes minimum sentence.
(c) of Section 2, or with any public servant, whether named or otherwise shall, be punishable with imprisonment which shall be not less than six months but which may extend to five years and shall also be liable to fine. ... ....." (Emphasis supplied) 7.  section 13 deals with criminal misconduct by a public servant.
See: Supreme Court Bar Association 1998 Indlaw SC 688 (supra) 22.  Though the jurisdiction of this Court, article 142 of the Constitution of India is not in dispute, we make it clear that exercise of such power would, however, depend on the facts and circumstances of each case.
The power is to be used sparingly in cases which cannot be effectively and appropriately tackled by the existing provisions of law or when the existing provisions of law cannot bring about complete justice between the parties." (Emphasis added) 19.  After elaborately discussing almost all the case laws on this subject about jurisdiction of this Court under Article 142, summarised the same in the following words: Therefore, the law in this regard can be summarised to the effect that in exercise of the power article 142 of the Constitution, this Court generally does not pass an order in contravention of or ignoring the statutory provisions nor is the power exercised merely on sympathy.
