Ltd.(AIR 1993 Bombay 185); 1992 Indlaw MUM 6327 Lever Brothers, Port Sunlight Ld.
The said order was confirmed on May 22, 2001 to remain operative till disposal of suit.
In this regard, he relied upon a decision of the Madras High Court in Nestle's Products (India) Ltd. v. P. Thankaraja & Anr.(AIR 1978 Mad 336).
I am of the opinion that in case ex-parte ad-interim orders are not granted, the relief claimed itself may be rendered infructuous.
We accept the above statement of law.
" 14.  Based on this affidavit, the suit was partially decreed in favour of the appellant on November 10, 2004.
(1949) 66 RPC 84); The Ritz Hotel v. Charles of the Ritz  (1989) RPC 333) and Australian Wine Importers' Trade Mark  (1889) 6 RPC 311).
47.   In view of the above, these appeals are allowed in part and the impugned order dated September 9, 2004 is set aside.
Section 56 on the other hand deals with situations where the initial registration should not have been or was incorrectly made.
" 13.  The said suit was transferred to the Court of the Additional District Judge, Tis Hazari Court, Delhi.
" 36.  But if the ground for rectification is merely based on non- user i.e. under Section 46 of the Act, that is not really on account of any public mischief by way of an incorrect entry.
The objection about maintainability of the appeals is, accordingly, overruled.
The appellant also prayed for an interim order in the suit.
If during the pendency of such application, the applicant's cause of complaint does not survive or his grievance does not subsist due to his own action or the applicant has waived his right or he has lost his interest for any other reason, there may not be any justification for rectification as the registered trade mark cannot be said to operate prejudicially to his interest.
The vacation Judge of the Delhi High Court, on December 27, 2002 passed an order of temporary injunction against the first respondent as follows: "Notice for 24th March, 2003 before the Joint Registrar.
29.   Learned counsel for the first respondent further argued that 'Infosys' is not an invented or a coined word; the said word is an abbreviation and combination of the words 'information system'; the word 'Infosys' has been used by various companies abroad as well as within India prior to incorporation of the appellant itself and hence cannot be called an invented word.
However, it is not necessary to dilate on this aspect of the matter as the appellant has really argued on the second and third aspects of Section 46 viz. the alleged non-use of the trade marks by Hardie and special circumstances".
Since we are not concerned with a certification trade mark, the process for registration of which is entirely different, we may exclude the interpretation of the phrase "person aggrieved" occurring in Section 69 from consideration for the purposes of this judgment.
He vehemently contended that goods in Classes 7, 9 and 16 for which the appellant obtained registration were never used in the manner contemplated by The 1958 Act for almost 30 years and that would show the mala fide intention of the appellant in having the same registered for the purpose of squatting and trafficking.
38.   In the case of Hardie Trading Ltd 2003 Indlaw SC 756.1, this Court approved the test applied by Romer, J. in The Royal Baking Powder Company v. Wright, Crossley, and Co. (1898) 15 RPC 677), which has been reproduced in the report.
(3) The tribunal may in any proceeding under this section decide any question that may be necessary or expedient to decide in connection with the rectification of the register.
39.   Hardie Trading Ltd 2003 Indlaw SC 756.1 has been followed by this Court in a recent decision in the case of Kabushiki Kaisha Toshiba  (2008) 10 SCC 766) 2008 Indlaw SC 1395 This Court stated that Section 46 speaks for private interest while Section 56 speaks of a public interest.
40.   It is true that the appellant in opposition to the applications for removal/rectification of trade mark did not specifically challenge in its counter affidavits the locus standi of the first respondent to be heard as a person aggrieved.
He argued that the IPAB ought to have considered whether use of mark 'Infosys' by the first respondent on computer hardware would create confusion in the mind of the consumers that they might be led to believe that the said hardware is manufactured by the appellant.
Learned counsel heavily relied upon two decisions of this Court: (1) Hardie Trading Ltd. & Anr.
In Kerly's Law of Trade Marks and Trade Names (11th edition) at page 166, the legal position with regard to 'person aggrieved' has been summarized thus The persons who are aggrieved are all persons who are in some way or the other substantially interested in having the mark removed where it is a question of removal from the register; including all persons who would be substantially damaged if the mark remained, and all trade rivals over whom an advantage was gained by a trader who was getting the benefit of a registered trade mark to which he was not entitled.
He contended that the IPAB erred in holding that software was a 'service' and the subject registrations were in relation to goods without considering the wide definition of 'goods' provided under Section 2(g) of The 1958 Act.
8.   The first respondent then filed three separate applications before the Madras High Court, inter alia, under Sections 46 and 56 of the Trade and Merchandise Marks Act, 1958 ('the 1958 Act').
20.  According to him, the IPAB sought to rely upon 'computer programming' which is a 'service' enumerated in Class 42, without considering the distinction between a 'computer programme' and 'computer programming' and without noticing the entry 'computer' under Class 9 which falls within 'goods'.
Learned counsel would submit that the appellant has, for the first time, argued before this Court that the first respondent is not a person aggrieved and/or not capable of maintaining the rectification proceedings with respect to each and every good for which the appellant has been registered since the first respondent has not been registered for all the goods.
Sections 46 and 56 read as follows : "section 46.
24.   In reply to the arguments of learned counsel for the appellant, Mr. Vaibhav Gaggar, learned counsel for the first respondent strenuously urged that the plea of 'aggrieved person' is a new plea and raised substantially for the first time before this Court.
On November 22, 1996, the Calcutta High Court by an ad- interim order restrained the first respondent from using the word 'Infosys' in any manner in relation to the goods for the time being.
Learned counsel would submit that in examining the question of non-use under Section 46(1)(b), the IPAB failed to consider that the requisite use must be 'in relation to goods' under registration, which is extensively defined under Section 2(2)(b) of The 1958 Act.
The particulars with reference to the trade mark registered by the appellant are as follows : 3.   On April 21, 1992, the name of the company Infosys Consultants Pvt.
25.  Mr. Vaibhav Gaggar rather asserted that the first respondent is a person aggrieved in view of the fact that various suits for infringement have been filed by the appellant against the first respondent and on the date of the applications for rectification/removal of the subject registrations from the register, the suits were pending.
21.   Mr. Akhil Sibal, learned counsel also argued that the IPAB failed to have regard to the proviso to Section 46(1), in terms of which it is open to the registered proprietor to rely upon use of the registered trade mark during the relevant period in relation to 'goods of the same description', in order to resist an application for rectification.
In the first place, when the first respondent applied for rectification/removal in respect of three registrations in Classes 7, 9 and 16, it must have shown in respect of each of them that it is a 'person aggrieved' and the IPAB must have separately considered in respect of each registration the locus standi of the first respondent as the considerations for each entry might not have been common.
Lastly, he submitted that although no cross objections or cross appeal has been filed, the first respondent has some grievance with regard to the order of the IPAB in not considering the case set up in the rectification/removal applications particularly with regard to Section 56 of The 1958 Act.
46.   In the circumstances, we are satisfied that the applications made by the first respondent for rectification/removal of the subject trade marks from the register need to be considered afresh by the IPAB in accordance with law and the observations made above.
(2) Any person aggrieved by the absence or omission from the register of any entry, or by any entry made in the register without sufficient cause, or by any entry wrongly remaining on the register, or by any error or defect in any entry in the register, may apply in the prescribed manner to a High Court or to the Registrar, and the tribunal may make such order for making, expunging or varying the entry as it may think fit.
6.   The appellant having come to know of several instances of misuse of mark 'Infosys' also filed a writ petition (being writ petition No. 14214 of 2000) before the Calcutta High Court, inter alia, praying that the Registrar of Companies be restrained from registering the companies bearing the name 'Infosys'.
(6) The power to rectify the register conferred by this section shall include the power to remove a trade mark registered in Part A of the register to Part B of the register.
18.   Mr. Akhil Sibal, learned counsel for the appellant argued that an application for rectification, whether under Section 46 or Section 56 of The 1958 Act, can only be preferred by a 'person aggrieved'; the applicant must not only be a person aggrieved on the date of the application but must continue to remain a person aggrieved until such time as the rectification application is finally decided.
Although both Sections, namely, Sections 46 and 56 require 'person aggrieved' to apply for removal of the registered trade mark from the register or rectification of a trade mark in the register, the expression 'person aggrieved' for the purposes of these two Sections has different connotations.
30.   Insofar as discretion exercised by IPAB in ordering removal of the appellant's registrations from the register under Section 46(1)(b) of The 1958 Act is concerned, learned counsel for the first respondent submitted that this Court should not overturn the discretion so exercised by the IPAB keeping in view the dishonest and fraudulent conduct of the appellant.
Limited was changed to Infosys Technologies Pvt. Ltd. and thereafter on June 2, 1992, the name was changed to the present name, i.e. Infosys Technologies Limited.
