(a) and (c) cannot be combined.
(f) there is a conjunction 'and'.
In 1944 this person resigned from his appointments and started his own business in radio and electrical goods in the name of D. Brothers.
Appeal allowed.
It is permissible, therefore, for the prosecution to lead evidence to , Drove both these facts.
Of course a Court has the power to depart from the grammatical construction if it finds that strict adherence to the grammatical construction will defeat the object the Legislature had in view.
It would take considerable time if we were to adjourn this matter now and give an opportunity to the parties to include those documents on record.
The High Court was clearly wrong in so holding.
His successor, however, apart from the fact that be continued to be staying mostly at Rajahmundry, was also interested in several other ventures, including a sugar factory at Dewas in Central India.
He was given time for doing so but he failed to pay it.
Dealing with this matter this Court held at p. 200 : "No doubt, sub-s.
It is true that by introducing this provision the disability placed on an accused person in respect of giving evidence on oath in his own defence has been removed and to that extent such person is placed on par with an accused person under the English law.
We however, find that certain documents upon which Mr. Chari wants to rely are not included in the paper book.
We may, however, point out that Billimoria himself gave his evidence in English.
The actual decision of the case is, however, directly opposed to the contention now put forward before us.
He died in the year 1939 and was succeeded by R.K.N.G. Raju, an Advocate of Rajahmundry.
That, in our opinion, is not the correct legal position.
It is clear from the charge that some of the amounts were misappropriated between April, 1947 and March, 1950, some between April, 1947 and March, 1949, some between April, 1947 and March, 1951 and quite a large number between September, 1947 and March, 1950 and a still large number between April, 1951 and March, 1952.
There the learned judges have held thus: "These clauses are mutually exclusive and they cannot be simultaneously applied and to construe them as supplementing each other would be enlarging the scope of the exceptions.
Two persons A and B enter a house at night and first together commit the murder of a man sleeping there and then also his wife.
We shall first deal with the third point.
This provision lifts partially the ban on the trial of a person for more than one offence at the same trial.
(1) of that section, in which case a judicial magistrate may exercise that power.
The High Court held that since the account books were not translated they are not admissible in evidence.
Let us suppose that a group of persons are accused of having been members of an unlawful assembly the common object of which was to overawe by sheer force another group of persons and take forcible possession of a piece of land.
When the respondent No. I had to issue a personal cheque on any of these Banks he used to ask the second respondent to send an equivalent amount to the Bank concerned for being credited to his account.
That , however, is not the Only provision to be Considered .
At that time it used to be represented to him that the amounts which were shown to be in the safe and not found therein  had been sent to the Bank for being deposited.
"Ss. 221 to 232 are comprised under the first sub-head and sections 233 to 240 in the second.
That is to say, they have given their explantion regarding the circumstances appearing in the evidence set out in the questions and wherever that was not feasible they have said that they would do so in their written statements.
No doubt, if this interpretation is accepted the object of the section, that is, to embrace within it the graver offences, would be fulfilled, but we wish to express no opinion on it.
In January, 1952 he therefore brought one section G. Krishna Aiyar who had vast experience in the maintenance of accounts of electrical undertaking's having been Chief Accountant of the South Madras Electric Supply Corporation, to undertake an investigation and then to act as Financial Adviser.
This, according to him, was an absue of the provisions of section 159 of the Evidence Act.
In other words, as the High Court puts it, persons included in two or more of the groups cannot all be tried together and that since there is absolutely nothing to connect one group with any other, the persons of one group cannot be tried with those of any other.
For, it is a rule of construction that all the provisions of a statute are to be read together and given effect to and that it is, therefore, the duty of the Court to construe a statute harmoniously.
On the next day the police placed an armed guard around the office of the respondent No. I and seized a number of papers.
Ss. 226 to 231 deal with the power of the court with regard to framing and altering charges and the procedure to be adopted at the trial where a charge is found to be defective or there is no charge or where a new charge is to be framed.
P.C. and that if he had been tried alternatively for both the offences at the same trial the Court could have dealt with him under section 237, Cr.
Learned counsel further pointed out that the decisions show that however undesirable it may be to adduce the evidence of a person jointly accused of having committed an offence along with others, his evidence is competent and admissible except when it is given in a case in which he is being actually tried.
P.C. for the enhancement of the sentences passed on the respondents.
No doubt, as has been rightly pointed out in this case, separate trial is the normal rule and joint trial is an exception.
Thus, this is a special provision available in case of doubt and is neither subject to the limitations prescribed by section 233 nor those of the other preceding provisions.
The respondent No. 1 on being asked to explain said that he would give his explanation to the Managing Director.
Here, however, we have a case where the prosecution alleges that there was additionally a conspiracy to which apart from the two respondents the approver and some other persons were parties and where in both the respondents were tried together.
To this kind of charges.
Then again it would not be sufficient for the High Court to deal with the evidence in a general way.
He was succeeded by T. Visweswara Rao, P.W. 6, an employee of the AECO.
Further scrutiny of the accounts was being carried out by Krishna Aiyar and in his subsequent report he pointed out that Rs. 2, 38, 000/- which were shown as having been paid to the Andhra Power System had actually not been paid.
The latter category comprises of the executive officers of the Revenue Department, on whom the responsibility for the maintenance of law and order was to continue to rest.
This section does not expressly say that the only punishment provided for the offence should be imprisonment not exceeding 10 years.
But we find it difficult to appreciate what seems to be the view of the High Court that because each `clause of section 239 enunciates a separate principle those principles are, so to speak, mutually' exclusive and cannot be cumulatively resorted to for trying several persons jointly in respect of several offences even though they form part of the same transaction.
The argument before the High Court was and before us is that, the absence of an entry cannot of electricity duty to Government.
P.C. If such a combination is permissible, all persons accused of offences described in cls.
What it must now do is to consider the entire evidence and decide for itself whether it is sufficient to bring home all or any of the offences to the respondents.
But that would be a matter ultimately within the discretion of the court before which the trial takes place.
The prosecution would be well, advised if, instead of placing the evidence on each and every one of those large number of charges against the respondents, it chooses to select a few charges under each head other than the head of conspiracy and concentrates on establishing those charges, this would save public time and also serve the purpose of the prosecution.
Unless we read section 234(1) as not enacting a fetter on section 235(1), it may not be possible to give full effect to the latter.
P.C. clearly was to prevent multiplicity of trials and not only would that object be defeated but an extraordinary result will ensue if the various clauses of section 239 are read disjunctively.
The respondent No. I and some of his friends were in search of a rich and substantial man who would be amenable to them to fill the post of Managing Director of AECO.
Of course, the view taken by the Additional Sessions judge is not binding on the High Court.
These amounts also used to be noted in the private note book and entered" 9.
Similarly K. V. Gopala Raju was transferred from the post of Stores Clerk to the general department and K.S.N. Murty, the discharged accused, was appointed Stores Clerk in his place.
No objection was taken on their behalf before the learned Additional Sessions judge and from the manner in which they have answered the questions there is no doubt that they must have had opportunity to look at the relevant documents and answer the questions.
On May 13, 1954 a chargesheet was filed against the two respondents as well as Murti and the approver Ramana.
Undoubtedly the learned Additional Sessions judge has questioned the respondents very fully and elaborately but to say that this bordered on cross- examination is wholly unjustifiable.
As regards the offence under section 477-A, it is one of those sections which are specifically enumerated in section 337 (1) and the argument advanced before us-and which we have rejected would not even be available with regard to the pardon in respect of that offence.
His second contention was that reference was made to a number of documents in some of these questions and those documents were not made available to the respondents for answering those questions.
Be that as it may, there is no substance in the first ground.
On the other hand at the end of cl.
The State on the other hand preferred an application for revision under section 439, Cr.
Where, however, several offences are alleged to have been committed by several accused persons it may be more reasonable to follow the normal rule of separate trials.
Absence of entries in their account books would be inconsistent with the receipt of the accounts and would thus be a relevant fact which can be proved under section 11.
One of the partners of the firm was examined by the prosecution as a witness in the case and he produced the account books of the firm.
Bhimasankaram contended that s, 239 must be read at least subject to sections 234(1) and 235(1) on the ground that if there are certain restrictions with respect to the trial of a single accused there is no reason why those restrictions will disappear if an accused person is tried along with several other persons.
The same practice was followed at the meeting of the general body of the shareholders.
The opening words of the section show that it is an enabling provision and, therefore, the Court has a discretion to avail itself cumulatively of two or more clauses.
The offence under section 467 read with section 471 is punishable with imprisonment for life or imprisonment of either description for a period of 10 years but it is exclusively triable by a court of Session and, therefore, in so far as such offence is concerned the argument of Mr. Bhimasankaram would not even have been available.
Then take section (a) and (d).
Then according to the High Court offences under.
If the intention of the Legislature was that the provisions of these clauses should be available only alternatively it would have used the word "or" and not "and" which has the opposite effect.
But in the view we take about the legal validity of the pardon tendered, we do not wish to pronounce one way or the other on this very interesting question.
There is section II of the Evidence Act which provides that facts not otherwise relevant are relevant if they are inconsistent with any fact in issue or relevant fact.
Therefore, since the offence under section 409 was not merely punishable with transportation for life but alternately also punishable with imprisonment which could extend to 10 years, section 337 (1) would apply.
In that case this Court upheld the order of the High Court of Madras in quashing the charges in the exercise of its inherent powers even before the conclusion of the trial.
The third point stressed by him was that the approver was allowed to refresh his memory, while deposing in the case, by referring extensively to the account books and various documents produced in the case.
The power conferred by sub-s.
The AECO was appointed Managing Agent for each of these corporations under separate agreements.
Each of them has committed two offences and each of them participated in the same offence.
Then we come to section 236 which provides that if a single act or series of acts is of such a nature that it is doubtful which of several offences the facts which can be proved will constitute, the accused may be charged with having committed all or any of such offences and further provides that any number of such charges may be tried together.
The prosecution be established by reference to section 34 of the Indian Evidence Act which reads thus:" ".
In so far as the respondent No. 2 is concerned the High Court has held that since he was charged with a specific offence under s.409 I.P.C. he could not be convicted of mere abetment of an offence.
We are informed that the questions had been prepared before hand by the learned Additional Sessions judge, copies thereof were made available to each of the respondents and it was with reference to those copies that they gave their answers in the court.
The respondent No. I secured the promotion of the approver K.V. Ramana, who was originally Accounts Clerk to the post of Senior Accountant.
section 224 deals with the interpretation of the language of the charge and section 225 with the effect of errors in the charge.
His next objection was that it brought within its purview all the various offences which were alleged to have been committed by the respondents.
Whether the evidence of the approver should in any given case be accepted or not will have to be determined by applying the usual tests such as the probability of the truth of what he has deposed to the circumstances in which he has come to give evidence whether he has made a full and complete disclosure, whether his evidence is merely self-exculpatory and so on and so forth.
The High Court set aside the conviction of the respondents on a number of grounds.
It will be useful to set out the provisions of that section which run thus :" "This first thing to be noticed is that section 239 does not read as if its various clauses can be applied only alternatively.
Merely because the accused persons are charged with a large number of offences and convicted at the trial the conviction cannot be set aside by the appellate court unless it in fact came to the conclusion that the accused persons were embarrassed in their defence with the result that there was a failure of injustice.
For, where all the acts are referable to the same conspiracy their connection with one another is obvious.
In our opinion, where a witness has to depose to a large number of transactions , and those transactions referred to are or mentioned either in the account books or in other documents there is nothing wrong in allowing the witness to refer to the account books and the documents while answering the questions put to him in his examination.
In D.K. Chandra's Case 1951 Indlaw MUM 117, F. B) it was held that the provisions of sections 234, 235 and 236 being exceptions to section 233 must be strictly construed and that if joinder of charges did not fall under any of them it would be illegal and contrary to law.
This means that the trial for an offence under section 147 will have to be separated from the trial for the different offences committed by them.
Let us consider whether there is anything intrinsically incompatible in combining two clauses of section 239.
We, therefore, agree with the High Court that the account books of the various concerns to whom payments are said to have been made by the respondents are not by themselves evidence of the fact that no payments were received by them.
Two of the accused persons preferred a revision application before the High Court of Andhra Pradesh in which they challenged the charges framed against them.
The first question for consideration is whether there was a misjoinder of parties and of persons.
It is true that the respondent No. I alone was convicted by the Additional Sessions judge of this offence and the offence under section 467 read with section 471 but the validity of a pardon is to be determined with reference to the offence alleged against the approver alone and not with reference to the offence or offences for which his associates were ultimately convicted.
Grammatically, therefore, it would appear that the provisions of the various clauses are capable of being applied cumulatively.
Whether they can or cannot be read cumulatively must be determined by consideration of the language used in those clauses.
Both the sets of facts are relevant, that is, non-receipt of the amounts by the firms and non-existence of entries in their account books pertaining to those amounts.
If it is left out of account, he contends, there is nothing left in the prose- cution case, because, as pointed out by the Additional Sessions judge himself the evidence of the approver is the pivot of the prosecution case.
These words, he contended, clearly show that cl.
A similar view was expressed by the same High Court in the case which was reversed by this Court in The State of Andhra Pradesh V. Kandinalla Subbaiah ( 1962 (2) SCR 194, ), and it was held that conspiracy to commit an offence being itself an offence a person can be separately charged with respect to such a conspiracy.
P.C. The High Court, however, held that to be a kind of case which fell under section 235(1) of the Code and that since that was so, the provisions of section 236 were excluded.
In the Indian Penal Code, as originally enacted, conspiracy was not an offence.
The third contention was that the questions were involved, confusing and bordered on cross-examination.
section 337 (1) as it stood before its amendment by Act 26 of 1955 read thus" "His contention is that where none of the offences is exclusively triable by the High Court or the Court of Sessions pardon could be granted only if the offences are punishable with imprisonment which could extend to ten years but not if a higher punishment were provided for them.
Till the separation between the judiciary and the executive was effected the Collector as the head of the Revenue Department was also the District Magistrate.
He agreed and was elected Managing Director of AECO in the middle of 1948.
Lord Robertson during the course of the hearing has observed that no inference can be drawn from the absence of any entry relating to any particular matter which observation supports the view taken in Queen Empress v. Girish Chander Banerjee ( (1884) I.L.R. 10 C.L 1024. ).
The Directors of VESCO thereafter authorised K. section Dutt, one of the Directors to lodge a complaint with the police which he accordingly lodged on May 19, 1952.
The High Court has further stated that inadmissible evidence was taken on record by the Additional Sessions judge, namely, account books of Billimoria Brothers, maintained in Gujrati and further that the Additional Sessions judge was in error in allowing the prosecution to use those account books for establishing absence of entries with regard to certain payments alleged in the VESCO books to have been made to them.
On that date the respondent No. 1 produced the auditor's report .
No objection, however, was taken in the courts below on this score and in the absence of any prejudice to the respondents we do not think that we should take notice of the complaint made by Mr. Bhimasankaram.
For, the pardon granted in -this case can be regarded as being within the ambit of section 337 (1) for another reason.
Let us say that the grievous hurt was caused as a result of lathi blows given by X and Y, simple hurt was caused by lathi blows given by Z. Here, the offences committed were those under sections 147, 302, 325 and 323, I.P.C. The offences being different and the persons commiting the offences being different, they could not be tried jointly only with the help of cl.
Part IV of the Government order deals with the allocation of powers between the judicial and executive magistrates.
Mr. Chari then referred to section 133 of the Evidence Act and pointed out that this section clearly makes an accomplice evidence admissible in a case and that an approver whose pardon is found to be invalid does not cease to be an accomplice and contends that he is, therefore, as competent a witness as he would have been if he had not been granted pardon at all and not been put on trial.
We shall deal with Mr. Bhimasankaram's contentions in the order in which we have set them out.
To repeat, the object of the legislature in enacting section 239, Cr.
Yet the transaction in which the offences were committed is the same and there is a close association amongst the persons who have committed the different offences.
Similarly, if we take cl.
But what the amendment did was to make that conspiracy itself punishable.
What it does is to make entries in books of account regularly kept in the course of business relevant in all proceedings in a court of law.
The expression "same transaction" occurring in cls.
In support of his first contention he referred to questions Nos. 4, 8, 9, 10 and 20 put to the respondent No. I and question No. 12 put to the respondent No. 2 and tried to show that those questions rolled up a large number of separate questions and that it could not have been possible for the respondents to give any rational answers to those questions.
Does this mean that the provisions of section 233, 234, 235, and 236 must also be complied with? Obviously, section 233 does not override the provisions of section 239.
The last objection was that the charge of conspiracy was added to the charge sheet very late.
Now, of course, by the amendment made by section 117 of Act 26 of 1955 for the words "transportation for life" the words "imprisonment for life" have been substituted, but the original structure of all the sections now amended continues.
(a), (c) and (d) of section 239 as well as that occurring in section 235(1) ought to be given the same meaning according to the normal rule of construction of statutes.
His dual capacity enabled the respondent No. I to earn the confidence not only of the Directors of AECO but also of those of VESCO.
section 120 -B which makes criminal conspiracy punishable was added by the Indian Criminal Law Amendment Act, 1913 (8 of 1913) along with section 120-A. Section 120-A defines conspiracy and section 120- B provides for the punishment for the offence of conspiracy.
The entries in the.
Objection was taken very seriously by Mr. Bhimasankaram to the charge of conspiracy framed in this case.
So also A, B and C could be jointly tried together for an offences under section 302.
As the AECO did not have the necessary capital to undertake the work Raju floated in the year 1933 a public limited company called Visakhapatnam Electric Supply Corporation Ltd.,  and another in the year 1936 called the Anakapalli Electric Supply Corporation Ltd. The AECO transferred its licences for the supply of electrical energy to the consumers of Visakhapatnam to VESCO and similarly transferred to AECO the licence to supply electrical energy to consumers at Anakapalli.
In spite of the Government order all Magistrates who have, under Sch.
The original managing agency agreement in favour of AECO with respect to VESCO was for a period of 15 years i.e., from 1933 to 1948 and was later renewed for the remaining term of the currency of the licence granted by the Government under the Electricity Act.
Mr. Chari for the State advanced a further argument before us in case his main argument that the pardon was valid failed and said that the approver, even if we ignore the pardon, was a competent witness.
This amount was, however, paid by the AECO from the funds of VESCO.
The better course would be for us to set aside the acquittal of the respondents and send back the appeal to the High Court ?or being decided on merits.
Clearly, therefore, all the accused persons could be tried together in respect of all the offences now comprised in charge No. 1.
After the death of R.K.N.G. Raju, it was discovered that the AECO was indebted to many concerns which were under its managing agency, the liability being shown either as that of AECO or that of R.K.N.G. Raju personally.
We may mention that the High Court's observation that the approver's evidence was treated as unreliable by the learned Additional Sessions judge is not correct.
(c) they could be tried together because the offences are of the same kind.
That charge reads thus :" "Adverting to the portion which we have bracketed, his first objection was that the charge comprises within it not merely the conspiracy but also what was in fact done in pursuance of the conspiracy.
He cannot be expected to remember every transaction in all its details and section 160 specifically permits a witness to testify the facts mentioned in the documents referred to in section 159 although he has no recollection of the facts themselves if he is sure that the facts were correctly recorded in the document.
It is under these provisions that the account books of the firms must be held to be relevant.
The provisions of sub-s.
The respondent No. I was tried before the Court of Sessions, Visakhapatnam for offences under section 120-B, Indian Penal Code, section 409, section 477-A and section 471 read with section 467, I.P.C. while respondent No. 2 was tried for an offence under section 120-B and for offences under sections 409 read with section 109, 477-A and 471 read with section 467, I.P.C. Each of the respondents was convicted of the first two offences, but the respondent No. I alone was convicted of the other two offences.
According to him, under that section only the powers of "a District Magistrate" meaning thereby only the powers under Entry 7 (a) in Part V of Sch.
that the several instances of cheating being alleged to be in pursuance of that conspiracy were parts of the same transaction and, therefore, the joint trial of the accused persons for the different offences was not vitiated.
Unless, therefore, the provisions of section 239 are applicable it would follow that there was a misjoinder of charges.
Therefore, where the alleged offences have been committed in the course of the same transaction the limitation placed by section 234 (1) cannot operate.
But on appeal by the State of Andhra Pradesh to this Court, this Court held that there was no misjoinder of charges, that the introduction of a large number of charges, spread over a long period was a question of propriety and that it should be left to the judge or the Magistrate trying the case to adopt the course which he thought to be appropriate in the facts and circumstances of the case.
The VESCO had no Managing Director but at each meeting of its Board of Directors one of the Directors used to be elected Chairman.
Finally, the High Court held that the examination of the respondent under section 342 of the Code was unfair for a number of reasons and that the Additional Sessions judge had failed to perform an important duty in that he did not call the attention of the respondents to the provisions of section 342 which enable an accused person to give evidence in his own behalf.
Further, according to him, the evidence of the approver was found by the Additional Sessions judge to be unreliable and therefore, the first condition referred to in Sarwan Singh v. The State of Punjab , was not satisfied.
Further, according to the High Court where a conspiracy has yielded its fruits the conspirators can be charged with the actual offences committed and not with conspiracy to commit those offences.
We have read the questions and so also the answers.
(c) provides that persons accused of more than one offence of the same kind within the meaning of section 234 committed by them jointly within the period of twelve months could also be charged and tried together.
For all these reasons the evidence of the approver must be left out of account.
Now, if the respondent No. 1 were alone tried upon the second, third and the fourth charges the provisions of section 235(1) could have been pressed in aid if the allegations were that the offences were so connected together as to form one and the same transaction and the validity of the trial would not have been open to any attack.
" Amounts which had been misappropriated used to be posted therein though in fact no orders were placed for any material.
The accounts maintained by the VESCO used to be explained by him not only to the Directors but also to the shareholders.
Nor again, could they be tried jointly only with the help of cl.
This Court has pointed out in the latter decision that while it must be shown that the approver is a witness of truth, the evidence adduced in a case cannot be considered in compartments and that even for judging the credibility of, the approver the evidence led to corroborate him in material particulars would be relevant for consideration.
III as distinguished from the power under the proviso to section 337 (1) can be conferred upon an Additional District Magistrate.
(d) by itself all of them can be tried jointly for the different offences committed by each of them in the course of the same transaction and if cl.
They also show payment case was that the payments which were entered in the account of VESCO do not find a place in the account books of the corresponding firms or authorities because they were never made by VESCO.
The Additional District Magistrates (Independent) would also be under the control of the Government through the Board of Revenue.
The High Court should bear this in mind for deciding whether the evidence of the approver should be acted upon or not.
It is the prosecution case that as Secretary of VESCO and the resident representative of the Managing Agents, the respondent No. I was attending to the day to day affairs of VESCO, which included the receiving of all sums of money due to VESCO, spending money for the purpose of VESCO attending to the appointment, supervision and control of the staff of VESCO, purchasing materials required for the purpose of VESCO and supervising over the accounts of VESCO.
