Moreover, if a lessee of a property takes a mortgage of the sum property from the landlord, it would be unreasonable to attribute to a tenant the intention to surrender the tenancy and to invoke the sophisticated doctrine of implied surrender as has been held by the Gujarat High Court in Patel Atmaram Nathudas v. Babubhai Keshavlal.
Merger takes place when a lesser estate is merged or drowned in a greater estate.
It was also claimed therein that they had become owners of the said properties when the plaintiff in the year 1962 sold those properties to defendant-1 by receiving a sum of Rs.4, 400/- as consideration for the sale.
This Court dealing with the said question said that all depends upon whether there was an implied surrender of the lessee's rights when the usufructuary mortgage was executed in his favour by the lessor-mortgagor and only if an implied surrender of lossee's rights could be inferred then the mortgagor would be entitled to have delivery of physical possession upon redemption but not otherwise.
When suit for redemption of the premises was filed by the respondent the appellant claimed, that after redemption, he was entitled to remain in possession of the premises because of the subsistence of his previous tenancy right.
Plaintiff filed the suit for redemption of the said mortgages in the year 1966.
Even if the rights of the lessee and the rights of the mortgagee in respect of a property were to be united in one person the reversion in regard to the lease and the equity of redemption in regard to the mortgage, would be outstanding in the owner of the property and accordingly, there would not be a complete fusion of all the rights of ownership in one person.
Interests of the lessee and the lessor in the whole of the property become vested at the same time in one person in the same right because of section 11 l(d) of the T.P. Act.
When the landlord mortgages the lease-hold property of the tenant to the tenant himself, he does not part with the right of reversion which he has in respect of that property.
In the present case, as has already been pointed out by us, the plaintiff- appellant did not claim that the defendants or any of them were in possession of the suit properties as tenants and there was a surrender by them of the possession either expressly or impliedly as would make the Court to come to the conclusion that the possession of the suit properties with the defendants was surrendered by them pursuant to the mortgage by conditional sale executed in their favour.
No controversy is raised in this appeal as regards the findings of the Civil Court that the deeds of mortgage executed by the plaintiff in respect of the suit properties were mortgages by conditional sale.
it was argued by him that the Civil Court before whom the plaintiff had filed the suit for redemption of the suit properties could not have driven the plaintiff to the forum of Mamlatdar merely because the defendants had raised the plea that they were tenants of the suit properties - agricultural lands.
When a plea of tenancy is raised with regard to suit property, an agricultural land, by a defendant who claims to be a tenant of such property under the BT & AL Act and seeks a reference of that issue by the Civil Court to the Mamlatdar under that Act for obtaining a finding thereon, can the Civil Court decide such issue by itself and proceed to decide the suit on the basis of the finding thereon ? As the said questions could be dealt with appropriately with reference to the statutory provisions which bear upon them, it would be convenient to advert to such statutory provisions here.
On receipt of such reference from the Civil Court, the competent authority shall deal with and decide such issues in accordance with the provisions of this Act and shall communicate its decision to the Civil Court and such court shall thereupon dispose of the suit in accordance with the procedure applicable thereto .... " Section 85A, as it came into force after it was amended by Gujarat Act No.5 of 1973 w.e.f 3rd March, 1973 :- "85A. (i) If any suit instituted, whether before or after the specified date, in any Civil' Court involves any issues which are required to be settled, decided or dealt with by any authority competent to settle, decide or deal with such issues.
For the purposes of this Act the following shall be the duties and functions to be performed by the Mamlatdar - (a) To decide whether a person is an agriculturist; (b) To decide whether a person is a tenant or a protected tenant (or a permanent tenant); (c) To decide such other matters as may be referred to him by or under this 85.
This Court held that the mortgage deed established beyond doubt that there was no subsistence or continuation of lease in that there was delivery of possession by the tenant to the landlord immediately before the mortgage and redelivery of possession to the tenant of the premises made by the landlord was pursuant to the mortgage as a mortgagee and not as a tenant.
According 10 him a mortgagee in possession being a person who cannot be deemed to be a tenant under section 4 of the BT & AL Act it was not open to the defendants to claim that they were the tenants of suit properties and if that be so question of raising issue of tenancy by the Civil Court in the suit before it did not arise at all nor was it necessary to refer such issue to the Mamlatdar under section 85-A of the BT & AL Act and stay the suit till receipt of the finding on such issue as was directed by the High Court in its judgment under appeal.
Question (1): 9.
No Civil Court shall have jurisdiction to settle, decide or deal with any question which is by or under this Act required to be settled, decided or dealt with by the Mamlatdar or Tribunal, a Manager, the Collector or the Maharashtra Revenue Tribunal in appeal or revision or the State Government in exercise of their powers of control.
In the case of a lease the estate that is in the lessor is a reversion.
But, in view of the arguments advanced on behalf of the plaintiff- appellant, what has to be seen is if the landlord of a property, the lease-hold of which is already with the tenant, gives that very property as mortgage security to the tenant (lessee) by executing a mortgage by a conditional sale for the amount borrowed by him from the latter, does merger of lease-hold right in that mortgage security occur.
A learned single Judge of the High Court, who heard the second appeal, while upheld the concurrent findings of the courts below that the deeds of mortgage executed by the plaintiff in respect of the suit properties in favour of defendant-l were mortgages by conditional sale and the defendants had failed to prove that there was sale of the suit properties in their favour subsequent to the coming into existence of the said mortgages, found that the defendants had raised in their written statements the plea that they were tenants not only prior to the date of suit but also at the time of the filing of the suit and having regard to that plea the suit ought to have been stayed by the Civil Court and the issue of tenancy should have been referred to the Mamlatdar for obtaining a finding from him thereon both under section 85-A of the BT & AL Act as it stood before its amendment at the time of filing of the suit and as it stood after its amendment after the filing of the suit.
under this Act (hereinafter referred to as the 'competent authority') the Civil Court shall stay the suit and refer such issues to such competent authority for determination. '' 8.
Since the following observations in the said case confirm the view we have taken on non-merger, they can be excerpted: "For a merger to arise, it is necessary that a lesser estate and a higher estate should merge in one person at one and the same time and in the same right, and no interest in the property should remain outside.
Consequently, the learned single Judge set aside the judgments and decrees of the trial court and the appellate court relating to the issue of tenancy raised by the defendants in the suit and remanded the case to the Civil Court (trial court) directing it to refer the issue of such tenancy to the Mamlatdar, Baroda for his determination and to stay all further proceedings in the suit till he got the finding from the Mamlatdar on that tenancy issue and thereafter to proceed to dispose of that suit in the light of that finding and the other findings recorded by the appellate court (District Judge).
In the case of a mortgage the estate that is outstanding is the equity of redemption of the mortgagor.
Accordingly, there cannot be a merger of a lease and a mortgage in respect of the same property since neither of them is a higher or lesser estate than the other.
Accordingly, there cannot be a merger of a lease and a mortgage in respect of the same property since neither of them is a higher or lesser estate than the other.
