The distance between the two places as was stated before us during the hearing of the case is less than 50 kms.
Transfer from one place to other is necessary in public interest and efficiency in the Public administration.
The respondent joined service as technical assistant with the Gujarat State Electricity Board (hereinafter refined to as the Board).
The appeal came up for hearing before us on 16.2.1988 when another counsel appeared to argue the appeal on behalf of the respondent on merits.
The respondent had no legal or statutory right to insist for being posted at one particular place.
Since the respondent had not obtained any sanctioned leave for his absence his absence from duty was unauthorised.
We refused to accede to his request as oral heating had already been completed and the matter had been adjourned only to enable the respondent's counsel to obtain instructions.
Consequently, the service was complete and the view taken by the High Court is incorrect.
Under the disciplinary rules detailed procedure is required to be followed for removing an employee from service but Regulation 113 provides for summary discharge from service.
The respondent's prayer is accordingly rejected and since oral hearing has already been completed, and in spite of several adjournments respondent failed to appear before the Court or to file the written submissions we proceed to decide the case on merits.
Before this power is exercised, two conditions must be satisfied; Firstly, the employee must be found to be absent from duty without leave or overstaying the period of sanctioned leave, and secondly, he failed to join his duty even after a warning.
The aforesaid documents leave no room for any doubt that the respondent was reminded of his failure to join his duties at Ukai and he was further reminded that his unauthorised absence had exposed him to disciplinary action.
The respondent acted in an irresponsible manner in not complying with the order of transfer which led to his discharge from service in accordance with the Service Regulation No. 113.
Apart from denying the postal endorsement, the respondent placed no material before the Court in support of his pleading.
B. K. Mehta, Advocate appearing for the appellants and Sh.
In view of the above discussion, we therefore hold that the respondent's failure to join his duties at Ukai resulted in unauthorised absence and his failure to join his duties in spite of the repeated reminders and letters issued to him constituted sufficient valid ground for taking action under Regulation No. 113.
By that letter respondent stated that he was waiting for the decision of his representation made for reconsideration of his transfer from Surat to Ukai and therefore, the question of his remaining on unauthorised leave was misconceived.
The object and purpose of giving warning is to remind the delinquent employee that if he continues to be absent from duty he would be liable to action under Regulation 113 and to afford him an opportunity to make amends by joining his duty.
We, accordingly, allow the appeal, set aside the order of the Single Judge as well as Division Bench and dismiss the respondent's petition.
In the absence of any stay of the transfer order a public servant has no justification to avoid or evade the transfer order merely on the ground of having made a representation, or on the ground of his difficulty in moving from one place to the other.
The respondent challenged the validity of the order of his discharge from service by means of a writ petition under Article 226 of the Constitution before the High Court of Gujarat.
Therefore even if the letter dated 24.4.1974 was not served on the respondent the order of discharge as contemplated by Regulation No. 113 is sustainable in law.
But even thereafter, the respondent did not join his duties.
On perusal of the material on record we are of the opinion that the view taken by the High Court is not sustainable as there is sufficient material on record which shows that warning had been issued to the respondent before the order of discharge was issued.
In his rejoinder affidavit the respondent denied the aforesaid allegations and asserted that the letter was not tendered to him and he never refused to accept the registered cover and the postal endorsement was wrong and incorrect.
A copy of the letter filed by the petitioner himself as Annexure 'K' to the writ petition in the High Court.
A learned Single Judge of the High Court quashed the order of termination on the findings that the order of discharge was issued m violation of the basic principles of natural justice as no opportunity was afforded to the respondent before discharging him from services under Regulation No. 113. 1.
You have been relieved on 30.3.1974 A.N. on account of your transfer from Surat to Ukai, but you have not reported to Ukai till today and remained on unauthorised absence on relief, which is breach of S.R. No. 112 and 113.
It is noteworthy that the validity of Regulation 113 was not challenged before the High Court and the parties proceeded on the assumption that Regulation 113 was valid and applicable to the respondent's service.
Meanwhile, the Chief Engineer by his order dated 27th May, 1974 discharged the respondent from service with effect from 31st March, 1974 in accordance with service Regulation No. 113.
Firstly, even if the letter dated 24.4.1974 was not served on the respondent there is no dispute that the Superintending Engineer's letter dated 18th April, 1974 had been served on him.
We are constrained to note that instead of utilizing the opportunity granted to him for filing written submissions the respondent has misused adjournments for the purposes of raising frivolous objections for getting the case transferred to some other Bench.
Mere denial made by ,the respondent in the circumstances of the case was not sufficient to rebut the presumption relating to service of the registered cover.
The sequence of events and the correspondence which ensued between the officers of the Board and the respondent clearly show that the respondent disobeyed the order of transfer and he remained absent from duty in an unauthorised manner without obtaining sanction of leave.
Now, since the order of discharge is held to be valid the amount paid to the respondent is liable to be recovered from him, but having regard to the facts and circumstances of the case and the hardship which could be caused to the respondent, we direct the appellant not to recover the amount already paid to the respondent.
The Chief Engineer discharged the respondent from service as he had continued to remain absent from duty w.e.f. March 30, 1974 to May 27, 1974.
