Further, they are posted at the places indicate against their names:- 3.
The action of the State did not, thus, lack bonafide.
We may, however, point out that even in cases where the facts are not all admitted or beyond dispute, there is a considerable unanimity that the courts can, in exercise of their discretion, refuse certiorari, prohibition, mandamus or injunction even though natural justice is not followed.
(See also his article Should Public Law Remedies be Discretionary? 1991 PL, 64.) A detailed and emphatic criticism of the useless formality theory has been made much earlier in Natural Justice, Substance or Shadow by Prof. D.H. Clark of Canada (1975 PL, 27 63) contending that Malloch and Glynn were wrongly decided.
Their application may be subject to the provisions of a statute or statutory rule.
The question which arose herein was not raised.
However, it was observed: "However, it is further made clear that the State respondent are at liberty to initiate or take up any appropriate legal action in the matter pertaining to their alleged fake appointments in their respective posts in accordance with law and pass necessary order after affording reasonable opportunity of being heard to them.
Since I have retired from service, I have no access to the file and do not know what might have been in the file and where is the file.
He, therefore, was wholly incompetent to issue the appointment letters.
Their appointment is in the first instance for one year.
However, we have referred to certain provisions relating to initial appointment, termination or renewal of tenure to indicate that the action is controlled at least by settled guidelines, followed by the State of U.P., for a long time.
It is for this reason, I have been writing to all the Deputy Commissioners in the Districts even by sending W/T messages clarifying the actual position of making any appointment of Revenue field staff.
The Government Order dated 12.01.1998 did not delegate the power of appointment to the Commissioner.
The State of Manipur is in appeal before us questioning the judgment and order dated 29.07.2005 passed by a Division Bench of the Guwahati High Court in WA Nos.
Those expressions, it is urged, have been taken from the service rules, where they were used to denote the three major punishments and it is submitted that those expressions should be read and understood in the same sense and treated as words of Art" 27.  In Dhirender Singh and Others v. State of Haryana and Others [(1997) 2 SCC 712  1996 Indlaw SC 1725], termination of an order of promotion in favour of the appellant was not interfered with by this Court as the same had not been approved by the DIG, being the competent authority.
Their appointments are made through open competition from among those who are eligible for appointment and strictly on the basis of merit as evidenced by the particulars of their practice, opinions of the District Magistrate and the District Judge and also after taking into consideration their character and conduct.
It is necessary to emphasize that the State did not proceed on the basis that the amendment to the Rules was not necessary.
19.  The appointing authority, in absence of any delegation of power having been made in that behalf, was the State Government.
The appeals are allowed.
Strong reliance in this behalf has been placed on Parshotam Lal Dhingra v. Union of India [AIR 1958 SC 36  1957 Indlaw SC 103], Murugayya Udayar and Another v. Kothampatti Muniyandavar Temple by Trustee Pappathi Ammal [1991 Supp (1) SCC 331  1991 Indlaw SC 904] and Kumari Shrilekha Vidyarthi and Others v. State of U.P. and Others [(1991) 1 SCC 212  1990 Indlaw SC 463].
It is true that where appointments had been made by a competent authority or at least some steps have been taken in that behalf, the principles of natural justice are required to be complied with, in view of the decision of this Court in Murugayya Udayar 1991 Indlaw SC 904 (supra).
I, therefore, deny making of such appointments.
The action of a statutory authority, as is well known, must be judged on the basis of the norms set up by it and on the basis of the reasons assigned therefor.
Sd/- 12/1/98 (Annayok J. Tayeng) Commissioner (Revenue) Govt.
Any action, which had not been taken by an authority competent therefor and in complete violation of the constitutional and legal framework, would not be binding on the State.
What, then, is the meaning of those expressions dismissed removed or reduced in rank? It has been said in Jayanti Prasad v. State of Uttar Pradesh 1951 Indlaw ALL 27 that these are technical words used in cases in which a persons services are terminated by way of punishment.
(2) protects government servants against being dismissed or removed or reduced in rank without being given a reasonable opportunity of showing cause against the action proposed to be taken in regard to them.
For the said purpose, the District Magistrate and the District Judge are required to maintain a character roll and a record of the work done by the officer and the capacity displayed by him in discharge of the work.
16.  Moreover, it was for the respondents who had filed the writ petitions to prove existence of legal right in their favour.
An inquiry was, therefore, made to find out the authority which had issued the said offers of appointments.
Having been selected on merit and for no other consideration, they are entitled to continue in their office for the period of the contract of their engagement and they can be removed only for valid reasons.
13.  The posts of field staffs of the Revenue Department of the State of Manipur were, thus, required to be filled up having regard to the said constitutional scheme.
Even the affidavit affirmed by Shri Tayeng before the High Court in this behalf is silent.
" 7.  The writ petitions filed by the respondents herein were allowed by a learned Single Judge of the High Court opining: (i) The principles of natural justice having not been complied with, the impugned orders cannot be sustained.
The said appointments were made on temporary basis.
18.  The term "DPC" would ordinarily mean the Departmental Promotion Committee.
This distinction between the State and a private individual in the field of contract has to be borne in the mind.
That after my retirement, some of the writ petitioners civil Rule No. 568 of 1998, came to me and show copy of the writ petition and the counter affidavit of the respondent No. 1, 2 and 3.
The people are interested in their continuance for the period of their contracts and in their non-substitution by those who may come in through the spoils system.
This too is relevant for deciding the question of arbitrariness alleged in the present case.
The respondents had not been validly appointed and in that view of the matter, the question of their case being considered for promotion and/ or recruitment by the DPC did not and could not arise.
Shri Tayeng by a UO Note dated 12.01.1998 denied to have made such an appointment stating: "CONFIDENTIAL U.O. No. 2/15/93-Com (R) Pt.
As noticed hereinbefore, an inquiry had been made wherein the said Shri Tayeng, the then Commissioner of Revenue stated that no such appointment had been made to his knowledge.
That, while I was functioning as Revenue Commissioner, Manipur, matters relating to appointment on the recommendation of the D.P.C., transfer etc.
I submit that these appointment orders (annexures A/1 and A/2) bear my signature (initial) and appear to have been issued under my signature.
