24.  The Drugs (prices Control) Order, 1970 defined 'Bulk Drugs' as follows: "Bulk drugs" means "any unprecessed phamaceutical, chemical, biological and plant product or medicinal gas conforming to pharmacopocial or other standards accepted which is used as such or after being processed into formulations and includes an essential bulk drug." 25.
Since prices of 'formulations' are primarily dependent on prices of 'buli drugs', the notifications fixing the retail prices of formulations were also quashed.
One of the terms of reference was 'to examine the measures taken so far to reduce prices of drugs for the consumer, and to recommend such further measures as may be necessary to rationalise the prices of basic drugs and formulations.' The Hathi Committee noticed that 'in a country like India where general poverty and the wide disparities in levels of income between different sections existed' it was particularly important to emphasise 'the social utility of the industry and the urgent need for extending as rapidly as possible certain minimum facilities in terms of preventive and curative medicines to the large mass of people both urban and rural'.
It will straight-away be seen that an order under section 3(2)(f) if a specific order directed to a particular individual for the purpose of enabling the Central Government to purchase a certain quantity of the commodity from the person holding it.
The true nature of the review provided by paragraph 27 in so far as it relates to the fixation of maximum price of bulk drugs under paragraph 3 leader price and prices of formulations under paragraphs 12 and 13 is hard to define.
But as we perceive the public interest, it is necessary that the price of formulation should be fixed close on the heels of the fixation of bulk drug price.
The problem is that of high prices, bearing, it is said, little relation to the cost of production to the manufacturers.
In the case of subordinate 'legislation, it may happen that Parliament may itself provide for a notice and for a hearing-there are several instances of the legislature requiring the subordinate legislating authority to give public notice and a public hearing before say, for example, levying a municipal rate--,in which case the substantial non-observance of the statutorily prescribed mode of observing natural justice may have the effect of invalidating the subordinate legislation.
The Fourth Schedule prescribes the various forms referred to in the different paragraphs of the Drugs (prices Control) Order.
It was argued by the learned counsel that the undertaking given by the parties lapsed with the disposal of the writ petition by the High Court and that it could no longer be enforced.
It was submitted that the provision for an enquiry preceding the determination of the price of a bulk drug, the prescription in paragraph 3 cl. 2 that the average cost of production of the drug manufactured by an efficient manufacturer should be taken into account and that a reasonable return on networth should be allowed and the provision for a review of the order determining the price, established that price-fixation under the Drugs (prices Control) Order 2979 was a quasijudicial activity obliging the observance of the rules of natural justice.
The primary object of the enquiry is to secure the bulk drug at a fair price for the benefit of the ultimate consumer an object designed to fulfil the mandate of article 39(b) of the Constitution.
As already stated by us, manufacturers of bulk drugs who claim to be affected by the Drugs (prices Control) Order, belong to a class of persons who are well and fully informed of every intricate detail and particular which is required to be taken into account in determining the price.
Such situations may arise when the owner of property or goods is compelled to sell his property or goods to the Government or its nominee and the price to be paid is directed by the legislature to be determined according to the statutory guidelines laid down by it.
Paragraph 9 empowers the Government to direct manufacturers of bulk drugs to sell bulk drugs to manufacturers of formulations.
This is also a question which may be raised before the Government in the review application.
49.  We mentioned that the price fixed by the Government may be questioned on the ground that the considerations stipulated by the order as relevant were not taken into account.
30.  Paragraph 3 of the 1979 Order enables the Government, with a view to regulating the equitable distribution of any indigenously manufactured bulk drug specified in the first or the second schedule and making it available at a fair price and after making such enquiry as it deems fit, to fix from time to time by notification in the official gazette, the maximum price at which the bulk drug shall be sold.
43.  We are unable to agree with the submissions of the learned counsel for the respondents either with regard to the applicability of the principles of natural justice or with regard to the nature and the scope of the enquiry and review contemplated by paragraphs 3 and 27 while making our preliminary observations, we pointed out that price fixation is essentially a legislative activity though in rare circumstances, as in the case of a compulsory sale to the Government or its nominee, it may assume the character 'of an administrative or quasijudicial activity.
Armed with authority under the Drugs (prices Control) Order, 1979 the Central Government issued notifications fixing the maximum prices at which various indigenously manufactured bulk drugs may be sold by the manufacturers.
The case of Premier Automobiles was distinguished on the ground that the decision was rendered by invitation and on the agreement of the parties irrespective of technical and legal questions.
If review applications are not disposed of expeditiously the notifications fixing the prices must be struck down as having become obsolete.
According to the learned counsel, the price of a bulk drug is dependant on many variable factors which keep changing very fast.
From the legislative nature of the activity of the Government, it is clear that the Government is under no obligation to make any disclosure of any information received and considered by it in making the order but in order to render effective the right to seek a review given to an aggrieved person we think that the Government, if so requested by the aggrieved manufacturer is under an obligation to disclose any relevant information which may reasonably be disclosed pertaining to 'the average cost of production of the bulk drug manufactured by an efficient manufacturer' and 'the reasonable return on net worth'.
Form No. 1 which is referred to in paragraphs 3(4), 5 and 8(1) is titled "Form of application for fixation or revision of prices of bulk drug".
32.  Paragraph 4 of the 1979 order provides that notwithstanding anything contained in paragraph 3, the Government may, if it considers necessary or expedient so to do for increasing the production of an indigenously manufactured bulk drug specified in the first or second schedule, by order, fix-- "(a) a retention price of such bulk drug, (b) a common sale price for such bulk drug taking into account the weighted average of the retention price fixed under clause (a).
For example, if the Legislature has decreed the pricing policy and prescribed the factors which should guide the determination of the price, we will, if necessary, enquire into the question whether the policy and the factors are present to the mind of the authorities specifying the price.
One is that all the writ petitions were disposed of by a common judgment and an appeal had been filed in the principal case.
It was open to the subordinate legislating body to prescribe and adopt its own mode of ascertaining the cost of production and the items to be included and excluded in so doing.
54.  While on the question on formulations, we would like to refer to the "Oration" of Dr. N.H. Antia at the 24th Annual Convocation of the National Academy of Medical Sciences where he posed the question: "Why do we produce 60,000 formulations of drugs worth Rs.2,500 crores which reach only 20% of the population when WHO recommends only 258 drugs and Rs.750 crores worth would suffice for all our people if used in an ethical manner?" 55.  A general submission of the learned counsel was that the price of formulations should not have been prescribed until the review application filed by the manufacturer in regard to the patent bulk drugs was disposed of.
41.  The submission of Shri Anil Diwan, learned counsel for the respondents was that unlike other price control legislations, the Drugs (prices Control) Order ,was designed to induce better production by providing for a fair return to the manufacturer.
It is the sort of enquiry which the legislature itself may cause to be made before legislating, an enquiry which will not confer any right on anyone.
Accordingly to the learned counsel, the very delay in the disposal of review applications was sufficient to vitiate the entire proceeding and scheme of price fixation.
Paragraph 27 enables any person aggrieved by any notification or order under paragraphs 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 9, 12, 13, 14, 15 or 16 to apply to the Government for a review of the notification or order within fifteen days of the date of the publication of the notification in the official Gazette, or, as the case may be, the receipt of the order by him.
The several columns of the Form provide for various particulars to be furnished and item 18 requires the applicant to furnish ,"the cost of production of the bulk drug as per proforma (attached) duly certified by a practising Cost/Chartered Accountant".
The hearing may be given within two months from today and the review application disposed of within two weeks after the conclusion of the hearing.
Paragraph 3(4)(b) provides that where the price of a bulk drug has not been notified by the Government, the manufacturer shall, within 14 days of the commencement of the the production of such bulk drug, make an application to the Government in Form I and intimate the Government the price at which he intends to sell the bulk drug and the Government may, after making such an enquiry as it thinks fit, by order, fix a provisional price at which such bulk drug shall be sold.
3.  Before we turn to the terms of the Drugs (prices Control) Order, 1979 we would like to make certain general observations and explain the legal position in regard to them.
If the provisions of section 3(2)(c) under which the price of an essential commodity may be controlled are contrasted with section 3(3C) under which payment is to be made for a commodity require to be sold by an individual to the Government, the distinction between a legislative act and a non-legislative act will at once become clear.
61.  It appears that although several writ petitions filed by different manufacturers were disposed of by the High Court by a common judgment, the Union of India filed an appeal within the prescribed period of limitation against one of the manufacturers, Cynamide India Limited only.
By way of an explanation efficient manufacturer is defined to mean "a manufacturer-(i) Whose production of such bulk drug in relation to the total production of such bulk drug in the country is large, or (ii) who employs efficient technology in the production of such bulk drug.
We are unable to say that the subordinate legislating authority acted unreasonably in prescribing the norms in the manner it has done.
We agree that applications for review must be dealt with expeditiously and whenever they are not so dealt with, the aggrieved person may seek a mandamus from the court to direct the Government to deal with the review application within a time framework.
The right of the citizen to obtain essential articles at fair prices and the duty of the State to so provide them are transformed into the power of the State to fix prices and the obligation of the producer to charge n6 more than the price fixed.
After the 1979 Drugs (prices Control) Order came into force, the distinction between essential and non-essential bulk drugs was abolished and a maximum price had to be fixed for Barlagan Ketone also like other bulk drugs.
Nothing in the scheme of the Drugs (prices Control) Order induces us to hold that price fixation under the Drugs (prices Control) Order is not a legislative activity, but a quasi-judicial activity which would attract the observance of the principles of natural justice.
The enquiry, obviously is not to be confined to obtaining information from the manufacturers only and indeed must go beyond.
He urged that relevant information was required to be furnished and was indeed furnished by all the manufacturers in the prescribed form as required by paragraph 3(4) of the Drugs (prices Control) Order.
that we mentioned earlier and a post-decision hearing after the making of an administrative or quasi-judicial order.
In such a situation, while such enquiry by the subordinate legislating body as it deems fit is a condition precedent to the subordinate legislation, the nature and the extent of the enquiry is in the discretion of the subordinate legislating body and the subordinate legislation is not open to question on the ground that the enquiry was not as full as it might have been.
