This Is also consistent with the other evidence that some work was in progress Which gain is in accord with the evidence of Telu Ram P.W. 8 that he got the possession of RD 4500 to RD 1200.
It was also contended that the High Court had not considered the contradictions in the earlier statement made by some of the witnesses to the Military authorities and that it relied on many of the documents for affirming the conviction of the Appellant without their actually being put to, him under Section 342.
Under that clause sanction has to be given to a prosecution for the contravention of any of the provision of the Order.
It was then that he wrote on 23-1-1963 as per exhibit 8 to the Assistant Garrison Engineer complaining that the possession of the whole of the land had not been delivered to him.
in any case the facts which have been stated, in the sanction clearly indicate that the appellant has dishonestly allowed the crops to be cut so that there is no question of any inference or implication that the persons cutting the crops were abetting him in the offence.
P.W.14 Ranadive tells us that if one were to go from the entrance of Air Field to the acquired land one would have to pass through RD 4500 to 1200.
Now the next question is When was the possession of the acquired land obtained by the Appellant and when did he deliver it to P.W. 8.
The contention that a trial for two offences requiring sanction is wholly void, where the sanction is granted for one offence and not for the other, is in our opinion unsustainable.
Before we consider these contentions it is necessary to determine another submission of the learned Advocate for the Appellant which goes to the root of the jurisdiction of the Court to try the offence, under Section 5(1)(c).
On' a careful consideration of the evidence both oral and documentary it is established that the Appellant who was in charge of the expansion work on the air-strip was given possession of the land acquired for that purpose on 13-2-63, that there was standing thereon, a bumper crop of Sarson, gram and Lusan on that day, that he was therefore entrusted with this crop, that he postponed giving delivery of the land to the contractor till, at any rate after the 23rd March, 1963 and before the 6th April, 1963 and that he allowed the crop to be cut and taken away without in any way accounting for it which shows that it was done dishonestly and raudulently.
The case of the prosecution initially was that after the land so acquired with the standing crop was taken possession of by the Appellant he sold the crop to Moti Ram and Kewal Chand for Rs. 2500 and facilitated the cutting and taking away of the crop by postponing the handing over of the possession to the contractor till the 5th April 1963 and misappropriated the money.
It is not the case of the Appellant that acquisition of the land on which the crop was standing had taken place nor could possession of it been handed over to him because he denies that there was any crop on the land when the possession of the land was handed over to him.
We should have thought this Was an obvious conclusion but the learned Advocate for the Appellant strenuously contended that the charge against the Appellant was of a motiveless offenceand in any case the facts as disclosed show that not only at thetime when the First Information Report was given but even at the time when sanction was accorded that the prosecution wag merely concerned with the charge that the appellant bad allowed the crops to be cut on the condition that Rs. 2500 will be paid and received the money and misappropriated or converted it tohis own use by not paying it into the Govt.
According to P.W. 8 Telu Ram, he acquired possession of the land of the length from RD 4500 to RD 1200 on 10th January 1963 and that tile possession of the acquired land was not delivered to him as it had not been acquired by that time.
But when the prosecution relies upon the proof of exhibit P. 24 as also to establish that there was standing crops on the land when the possession was delivered on 13-2-63 on certain witnesses who were present on the respective occasions, the nonexamination of other witnesses without anything more cannot be treated as defect in the prosecution.
For instance, it is said that Gamkhar, Military Estate officer was not produced to prove the receipt exhibit P. 24.
As the learned advocate for the respondent rightly pointed out with reference to each one of the persons who, it was claimed, should have been called, that there was already evidence relating to the particular matter about which the person specified was sought to be called.
He was asked about Telu Ram's evidence and also that he had given possession of the land RD 1200 to RD 00 to the contractor after the crop had been cut.
He was asked about the symbolic delivery of possession, the handing over of the actual possession of the land on 13-2-63 and the existence of crops on the date when possession was delivered on 16-2- 63.
In the examination of the accused under Section 342 the Special Judge in our view did put all the circumstances against the accused which formed the basis of the conviction.
We do not find that the assessment of the evidence by the Trial Court and the High Court even in the light of such of those previous statements that have been put to the witnesses in the manner stated above is in any way unjustified.
They can at best be used to contradict in the cross-examination of such a witness when he gives evidence at the Trial Court of the accused in the manner provided under Section 145 of 'the Evidence Act.
In so far as handing over of the possession of the land to the Contractor (P.W. 8) is concerned, the Trial Court and the High Court are equally justified in coming to the conclusion that the accused had not delivered the possession of the land to the contractor till quite late as would appear from the letter of P.W. 8 dated the 5th April, 1963.
At any rate on the 23rd March, 1963 P.W. 8 has again written to the Garrison Engineer namely the Appellant that the excavation of the taxi track could not be proceeded with for want of alignment to be given which was pending for want (because) of standing crops, in the land, the possession of which has not been given so far.
At the most it shows that a small portion of the crops were cut but it is apparent that that has not been taken into account by the Collector in assessing the value of the crop because it is on that day that crops were inspected for that purpose and subsequently the Agricultural Officer also had in his letter dated 18-2-63, which has been cited in the award exhibit P. 26 intimated that on inspection the crops were found to be very good.
Sukhchain Lal Jain P.W. 11 who had also come to obtain possession on behalf of the Military Estate Officer had said that he had seen some part of the crops had been cut by 13-2-1963, but was not aware who had cut them.
P. 24 that actual possession was delivered to the Appellant on 13th February '63 as per the delivery receipt executed by him, the Tehsildar and P.W.11, a representative of the Military Estate office and that even according to his letter already referred to exhibit P.13 there wag standing crop on the land as otherwise there is no meaning in the Appellant saying therein that it is desirable that entire proceedings with regard to acquisition of land and determining compensation for standing crops for' the 'total area of 39- 58 acres are finalised on the 13th February.
Nothing is specifically mentioned about possession of the acquired land being given to him on that date.
This shows that no work had in fact been undertaken on the land acquired and also that possession of the existing runway and track had already been given.
This is further confirmed by a perusal of the letter written by the Appellant to Telu Ram P.W. 8 in reply to his letter dated 28th February'63 (not produced) that "Necessary possession of the, runway and taxi track has already been given to you.
