When a combined application articles 226 and 227 of the Constitution is summarily dismissed without reasons, the appeal Court may consider whether the facts alleged, warranted filing of the application article 226 or article 227 of the Constitution.
Phraseology used in exercise of original jurisdiction article 226 of the Constitution in section 2 of the Act cannot be given a restricted and constricted meaning because an order passed in a writ petition can tantamount to an order article 226 or 227 of the Constitution of India and it would depend upon the real nature of the order passed by the learned Single Judge.
3.  Learned counsel for the appellant submitted that the order of this Court is very clear and the conclusions of the High Court that merely limitation was waived is contrary to the clear terms of the earlier order of this Court.
It is true, as submitted by learned counsel for the appellant, that the order of the learned Single Judge nowhere stated that the Court was considering the writ petition article 226 of the Constitution of India.
That being so, the mere fact that the writ petition was styled article 227 of the Constitution is of no consequence.
The question is whether an appeal would lie from the decision of the Single Judge in such a case.
Thus, in each case, the Division Bench may consider the substance of the judgment under appeal to ascertain whether the Single Judge has mainly or principally exercised in the matter his jurisdiction article 226 or article 227.
In the present case the Division Bench was clearly wrong in holding that the appeal was not maintainable against the order of the learned Single Judge.
Thus, the determining factor is the real nature of principal order passed by the Single Judge which is appealed against and neither the mentioning in the cause title of the application of both the articles nor the granting of ancillary orders thereupon made by learned Single Judge would be relevant.
In the event in his judgment the learned Single Judge himself had mentioned the particular article of the Constitution under which he was passing his judgment, in an appeal under cl. 15 against such a judgment it may not be necessary for the appellate bench to elaborately examine the question of its maintainability.
Learned counsel for the respondent-State on the other hand supported the impugned judgment of the High Court.
The Special Leave Petition is disposed of accordingly." (Underlined for emphasis) 5.  A bare reading of the order shows that the direction was to consider the LPA on merits and time was granted to prefer the LPA within three weeks.
If under the Rules of the High Court, a matter is heard and disposed of by a Single Judge, an appeal lies against his judgment unless it is barred either under the Letters Patent or some other enactment.
The right of appeal against the judgment of a Single Judge is given by the Letters Patent which have been continued in force by article 225 of the Constitution.
section 2 of the Act reads as follows: "2(1) An appeal shall lie from a judgment or order passed by the one Judge of the High Court in exercise of original jurisdiction article 226 of the Constitution of India, to a Division bench comprising of two judges of the same High Court.
However, taking in view the fact that this litigation is going on for nearly a decade and also the fact that even the learned Single Judge in his impugned order dated December 11, 1987 had remanded the case to the Rent Controller, we considered it proper in the interest of justice to hear the appeal on merits against the judgment of the learned Single Judge.
Thus, there is no manner of doubt that the orders and proceedings of a judicial court subordinate to the High Court are amenable to writ jurisdiction of the High Court article 226 of the Constitution.
In that case O. Chinnappa Reddy and D.P. Madon, JJ., considered the very same question in the light of cl. 15 of the Letters Patent of the Bombay High Court.
The impugned order is set aside.
" 15.  In view of what has been stated above, the High Court was not justified in holding that the Letters Patent Appeal was not maintainable.
In exercise of supervisory jurisdiction, the High Court may not only quash or set aside the impugned proceedings, judgment or order but it may also make such directions as the facts and circumstances of the case may warrant, maybe, by way of guiding the inferior court or tribunal as to the manner in which it would now proceed further or afresh as commended to or guided by the High Court.
As has been held in the case of Surya Devi Rai (supra) a writ of certiorari can be issued article 226 of the Constitution against an order of a Tribunal or an order passed by the sub ordinate court.
It cannot be said in a hypertechnical manner that an order passed in a writ petition, if there is assail to the order emerging from the inferior tribunal or subordinate Court has to be treated all the time for all purposes to be article 227 of the Constitution of India.
For all these reasons, therefore, the primary objection to the maintainability of the letters patent appeal as canvassed by learned counsel for the appellant, has to be repelled.
