[(1992) 3 SCC 576 1992 Indlaw SC 1107] or in the context of cl.
It did not.
The principle of 'purchaser of a property has a duty to make enquiries', therefore, cannot apply in a case of this nature.
But then such a case has to be made out.
First respondent itself accepts that at least immediately prior to the institution of the suit, appellant had been using the same.
However, such an application can be filed only by a person aggrieved.
2.  The factual matrix of the matter, which is not much in dispute is as under: 3.
Further, it is to be noted that an assignment is subject to "the provisions of the Act and any rights vested in any other person" - See section 37.
If the assignee has obtained assignment for bona fide use, he may not be fastened with any liability owing to non-user on the part of his predecessor.
(4) The tribunal, of its own motion, may, after giving notice in the prescribed manner to the parties concerned and after giving them an opportunity of being heard, make any order referred to in sub-s.
It was not lost by reason of assignment as was contended by the learned counsel.
" 28.  It was observed that in cases of intermittent use also, cl.
THAT Pursuant to a request on form TM-23 dated 17th June, 1986 and order thereon dated 24th October, 1986 Ganga Ram Anil Kumar (HUF), Sunil Kumar and Sumitra Rani, trading as Thukral Mechanical Works Railway Road, Sirhind (Punjab) are registered as subsequent proprietors of this mark as from 30th May, 1986 by virtue of Agreement dated 30th May, 1986.
" 8.  On the basis of the said statement, the following order was passed : "This petition has been filed by M/s. PM Diesels Pvt. Ltd. Against M/s. Jain Industries and the Dy.
Had the intention of the Parliament been that sub-s.
The question of maintainability of the second suit is absence of the registrant proprietor was not and could not have been the subject matter of consent at that stage.
The plaintiff shall comply with the requirements of Order 39 Rule 4 of the Code of Civil Procedure.
It obtained an or of injunction.
Renewal applications are required to be filed on the expiry of seven years.
The second rectification application filed by the first respondent, however, was transferred to the Intellectual Property Appellate Board.
For the purpose of making out such a case, both the original registrants as also the assignee were required to be impleaded as parties.
34.  The counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant did not state that it had waived its right so far as non-impleadment of M/s Jain Industries was concerned.
25.  It must not, however, be forgotten that section 46(1)(b) provides for a special remedy.
AND THAT The registration of the aforesaid trade mark has been renewed from time to time and will remain in force for a period of a seven years from 13th May, 1986 and may be renewed at the expiration of that period and of each succeeding period of a seven years.
(3) protects a mark from being removed from the register on ground of non-use if such non-use is shown to have been due to special circumstances in the trade.
The Board shall, however proceed to determine afresh the application filed by the first in the light of the legal principles explained above.
The non-user for a long time would disentitle a registered proprietor from renewal of the registration.
It is one thing to say that for the purpose of frustrating an application for rectification, the appellant had colluded with its predecessor for the purpose of trafficking by entering into the deed of assignment which is otherwise illegal and bad in law but it is another thing to say that the appellant could be proceeded against alone for non-user of the registered trade mark for a period of more than five years.
By an order dated 19.1.1988, having regard to the provisions contained in the said Act, the learned Judge opined that appellant having become the registered proprietor of the said trade mark, no case for grant of injunction has been made out, the interim order of injunction passed on 19.12.1985 was vacated and the defendants were permitted to use their registered trade mark subject to the following conditions : "(a) Defendants will not use the logo/style of the word "Field Marshal" of which logo and style the plaintiff is the proprietor under the Copyright Act.
If that be so, any registered proprietor could easily defeat an application for rectification by assigning the mark to some other person to have a fresh period of 5 years from the date of assignment and thus effectively frustrate the very object of the provision in section 47(1)(a) and (b).
The said application was dismissed.
(3) The tribunal may in any proceeding under this section decide any question that may be necessary or expedient to decide in connection with the rectification of the register.
The trade mark for which registration is obtained is used intermittently.
It seeks to enhance the period of moratorium of use of the registered trade mark from one month to three months so as to prevent speculative assignment.
" 7.  In the said C.O. No.9 of 1986 filed by the first respondent against M/s. Jain Industries, despite service of notice, nobody appeared on behalf of the defendant.
42.  The appeal is allowed with costs.
" 5.  Indisputably, during the proceedings in the above suit, M/s. Jain Industries by a deed of assignment assigned the said trade mark along with its goodwill in favour of the appellant.
Its non-user and rectification of the register could not, in the aforementioned situation, have been tagged with the cause of action, if any, against the appellant.
Whether section 46(1)(b) read with section 48 of the Act would bring within its purview, not only a registered proprietor but also the proprietor who had otherwise acquired a right would depend upon the facts and circumstances of each case.
The said M/s. Jain Industries, however, was not impleaded as a party therein.
The Board could not, while exercising its jurisdiction under section 46(1)(b), of the Act proceeded on the basis of such presumption.
Concededly, cl.
Meanwhile, a temporary ex parte injunction is issued against the defendants restraining them from manufacturing or selling either themselves or through any dealer or representative diesel oil engines or parts thereof with the trade mark 'Field Marshal' and/or any other trade mark identical therewith and all goods falling in Cl. 7 of the Trade and Merchandise Mark Rules.
18.  We may, however, also notice that another construction of the said provision has been put forth by Mr. Sunderam, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant, that the word 'proprietor' would not mean a registered proprietor but also a person who has become 'proprietor' by long use thereof.
" It would appear that neither the U.K. Act, nor the Indian Act, at any time envisaged that the commencement of 5 year period of non-use is to be delinked from the date of registration of the mark, so as to give a fresh lease of life to the registration, every-time there is change in the ownership of the mark.
31.  We may, at this stage, notice that in Law of Trade Marks by Mr. K.C. Kailasam, while commenting on section 47 of the Trade Marks Act, 1999 to which our attention has been drawn by Mr. Sudhir Chandra, it is stated : "Notes on clauses.--This clause corresponds to section 46 of the existing Act and provides for removal of a trade mark from the register on the ground of non-use.
A learned Single Judge of the Delhi High Court, however, refused to stay the operation of the order of the Board dated 27.10.2004.
It takes away the valuable right of a registered proprietor.
36.  Two interpretations of the said provision section 46(1)(b) are possible.
If Thukral did, then it cannot be said that there was no bona fide use thereof by its proprietor, that is, M/s Jain Industries.
The Division Bench of the High Court thereafter while disposing of both the writ petition and the Letters Patent Appeal allowed the writ petition and set aside the order of the Board and directed it to adjudicate the dispute on merits.
A registered proprietor of a trade mark should not be permitted to circumvent the law of user of the trade mark for a long time by assigning the same from time to time.
If appellant infringed the right of M/s. Jain Industries, it was for it to take action there for.
Appellant is said to have commenced its business of manufacturing and selling centrifugal pumps also under the mark 'Field Marshall'.
In the meantime, as a result of the ex parte ad interim injunction granted on 19th December 1985 by this Court in Suit No.2408 of 1985, there was no question of Thukral using the trademark Field Marshal till the injunction was vacated on 19th January, 1988.
Proviso to sub-cl.
Interpretation of the provisions of section 46(1)(b) of the Trade and Merchandise Marks Act, 1958 (hereinafter called and referred to for the sake of brevity as 'the said Act') is involved herein.
Whereas section 46 had a limited application, section 56 of the Act is wider in nature.
When the applicant before the Board establishes the fact in regard to non-user of the mark for a period of more than five years on the part of the registered owner, the latter may show that his case falls within the purview of sub-s.
A writ petition was filed there against by the first respondent.
A title to a trade mark derived on assignment as provided for under the Act cannot be equated with a defective title acquired in any other property as admittedly on the date of assignment, the right of the registered trade mark was not extinguished.
The request is not opposed on behalf of M/s Thakural Mechanical Works.
23.  The question which, therefore, arises is as to who can prove that he had the bona fide intention to use the trade mark on the date of application for registration.
The clause is proposed to be modified to clarify that special circumstances in the trade will include restrictions imposed by any law or regulation on the use of trade mark in India.
