In one year, the nature of cultivation is described as "Swantha"and in the years, the column is left blank.
[(2000) 1 SCC 518] 1999 Indlaw SC 941 and Krishtappa Yellappa Pujar & Ors.
Accordingly, they prayed for rejection of the application filed by the father of the appellants claiming occupancy rights under the Act.
2.  The appellants in this appeal, claiming to be the tenants of agricultural land, bearing Survey No. 125/1, measuring 3 acres 11 Gunthas (hereinafter called as the "scheduled land") situated in Lingabahalli Village, Madhugiri Taluk in the State of Karnataka, filed Form No.7 before the Land Tribunal praying for a declaration that they had acquired occupancy rights in respect of the scheduled land.
Salambin Mohammad [(1992) 2 SCC 635 1992 Indlaw SC 355], this Court at paragraph 20 has observed as follows : "In view of the above decisions, even though we are now dealing with the appeal after grant of special leave, we are not bound to go into merits and even if we do so and declare the law or point out the error- still we may not interfere if the justice of the case on facts does not require interference or if we feel that the relief could be moulded in a different fashion.." 27.  In view of the aforesaid, we are, therefore, of the view that this is not a fit case where this Court shall interfere with the order passed by the High Court under Section 121A of the Act.
The Land Tribunal, after remand, relying on the entries in the RTC record and some other materials on record, granted occupancy rights in favour of the appellants.
It was alleged by the respondent No.4 that since the respondent No.3 was a film actor and had settled in Madras (now Chennai), with the consent of the respondent No. 3, the scheduled land was given to the father of the appellants and the father of the appellants was cultivating the same from the year 1968 but not as a tenant.
Thus, he has no documentary evidence in respect of his claim that he came in possession of the land in dispute as a tenant under the 5th respondent and that he was cultivating the land in dispute as a tenant.
3.  The case of the appellants, as made out, was disputed by the respondent No. 4.
Thus, there is no consistent stand regarding the year of commencement of tenancy or under whom, Gondappa, the father of the respondents 3 and 4 became the tenant.
So, it is not possible to presume that the father of the respondents 3 and 4 was inducted as a tenant by the mortgagee, the 5th respondent, in respect of the land in dispute.
Therefore, under section 121A of the Act, in the presence of any of the abovementioned circumstances, the High Court is empowered to look into the legality of the orders impugned in deciding the question whether the appellants could be held to be the tenants under the respondent Nos. 3 or 4.
A revision petition, thereafter, was moved before the High Court and the High Court, by the impugned judgment, had set aside the concurrent findings of fact and rejected the application filed by the father, since deceased, of the appellants holding, inter alia, that the appellants or their father had failed to prove the tenancy in respect of the scheduled land.
Considering the concurrent orders of the appellate authority and the land tribunal and the impugned order of the High Court, we are in agreement with the High Court because the view taken by it was plausible and therefore, the question of interference by us article 136 of the Constitution is not warranted.
While considering such entries, the High Court had rightly held that from the entries in the RTC record for the years 1968 to 1974, the name of the appellants was not shown as the person in cultivation of the land in dispute and also the nature of cultivation of the scheduled land was not shown as that of the tenants in the said RTC record.
1962 Indlaw SC 366 He also relied on a decision of this Court in the case of Mohan Balaku Patil & Ors.
We have examined the impugned judgment of the High Court as well as the orders of the Tribunals below.
In that case, the findings recorded by the appellate authority as affirmed by the High Court by placing reliance on the entries made in the record of rights to the effect that the appellants were not in possession of the land on the relevant date nor were they cultivating the same, were not accepted by this court.
In the present case also, the respondents 3 and 4 failed to prove that their father was cultivating the land in dispute from the year 1968 as a tenant under the respondent No. 5 and that after the death of their father, they continued as tenants in respect of the land in dispute..It is also significant to note that the respondent No. 5, who was alive when the enquiry was pending before the Land Tribunal has not given evidence in favour of the respondents 3 and 4 stating that he has leased out the land in dispute in favour of the respondents 3 and 4.
Lastly, in our view, in view of the discussion made herein above, the decision relied on by the learned counsel for the appellant in the case of Dahya Lal & Ors.
We have already considered the findings made by the High Court while setting aside the concurrent orders of the tribunals below and found that the same appear to be well merited and in accordance with the material evidence on record, therefore, this Court would not interfere with the order of the High Court article 136 of the Constitution.
12.  On the other hand, in our view, under Section 121A of the Act, it would be open to the High Court to interfere with the orders of the tribunals below as the High Court is empowered to look into the legality of the order or regularity of the proceedings although, in the exercise of revisional jurisdiction section 115 of the Code, the High Court is not entitled to look into the legality of the order or the regularity of the proceedings but only entitled to interfere with the orders of the Tribunals or the courts below when it finds that they have a) exercised a jurisdiction not vested in them by law, or b) failed to exercise a jurisdiction so vested, or c) acted in the exercise of their jurisdiction illegally or with material irregularity.
In the present case, since the father of the respondents 3 and 4, is the uncle of the respondent No. 5, it cannot be said that he is not a member of the family of the respondent No. 5.
When the matter stood thus, the father of the respondent Nos. 3 and 4 Gondappa, who is the uncle of the 5th respondent, Rajashankar, filed Form No. 7 before the Land Tribunal claiming occupancy rights in respect of the land in dispute contending that he is the tenant of the said land, under the 5th respondent from the year 1968, i.e. subsequent to the date of mortgage.
8.  From a careful examination of the findings given by the High Court, as quoted hereinabove, in upsetting the concurrent findings of fact arrived at by the Tribunals below, we are not in a position to hold that the High Court was not justified in setting aside the concurrent orders of the Tribunals below in the exercise of its revisional power under Section 121A of the Act.
