On that basis, the following charge was framed by the Judicial Magistrate, First Class, Karnal, against the appellant - "That on 23.3.1996, after having made preparation for causing hurt or assault, you committed house trespass into the house of Smt.
In Shamnsaheb M. Multtani vs State of Karnataka - 2001 (2) SCC 577 2001 Indlaw SC 19904, this Court considered the meaning of the expression "failure of justice" occurring in section 464 of Cr.PC.
Some violations of the Code will be so obvious that they will speak for themselves as, for example, a refusal to give the accused a hearing, a refusal to allow him to defend himself, a refusal to explain the nature of the charge to him and so forth.
Broad vision is required, a nice balancing of the rights of the State and the protection of society in general against protection from harassment to the individual and the risks of unjust conviction.
The criminal revision filed by the appellant was disposed of by the High Court on 16.3.2010 upholding the conviction but reducing the sentence from six to four months rigorous imprisonment.
The object of the Code is to ensure that an accused person gets a full and fair trial along certain well-established and well-understood lines that accord with our notions of natural justice.
In that case the respondent was chargesheeted for an offence section 376 IPC and section 3 of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989.
This Court then examined the question as to when a procedure adopted could be said to have worked actual injustice to the accused and held : "Except where there is something so vital as to cut at the root of jurisdiction or so abhorrent to what one might term natural justice, the matter resolves itself to a question of prejudice.
The same broad principles of justice and fair play must be brought to bear when determining a matter of prejudice as in adjudging guilt.
The investigating officer was examined as PW-3.
When the said charged was read over and explained to the appellant, he pleaded not guilty to the said charge and claimed trial.
section 211 of the Code relates to the contents of the charge.
If he does, if he is tried by a competent court, if he is told and clearly understands the nature of the offence for which he is being tried, if the case against him is fully and fairly explained to him and he is afforded a full and fair opportunity of defending himself, then, provided there is 'substantial' compliance with the outward forms of the law, mere mistakes in procedure, mere inconsequential errors and omissions in the trial are regarded as venal by the Code and the trial is not vitiated unless the accused can show substantial prejudice.
The appeal filed by the accused was dismissed by the Addl.
(ii) The accused is entitled to know with certainty and accuracy, the exact nature of the charge against him, and unless he has such knowledge, his defence will be prejudiced.
In still another class of case, the matter may be so near the border line that very slight evidence of a reasonable possibility of prejudice would swing the balance in favour of the accused. ... the Code is emphatic that 'whatever' the irregularity it is not to be regarded as fatal unless there is prejudice." "It is the substance that we must seek.
One of the fundamental principles of justice is that an accused should know what is the charge against him so that he can build his defence in regard to that charge.
But there will be no prejudice or failure of justice where there was an error in the charge and the accused was aware of the error.
section 215 of the Code however clarifies that no error in stating either the offence or the particulars required to be stated in the charge, and no omission to state the offence or those particulars, shall be regarded at any stage of the case as material, unless the accused was in fact misled by such error or omission, and it has occasioned a failure of justice.
Their evidence was that he touched/caught the hand of Sheela Devi and when she raised an alarm he ran away.
It was elicited in her cross-examination that the accused did not go towards her mother-in-law nor say anything to her mother-in-law; that she used to come to the village where her in-laws were residing, only when her husband came home; and that the house of her father-in-law was surrounded by the houses of his brothers and their sons.
This Court reversed the decision of the High Court on the ground that a special court under the Act being a sessions court, it continued to have jurisdiction to try the case for the offence section 376 IPC.
Prakashi Devi, and thereby committed an offence punishable section 452 IPC within my cognizance.
The witnesses present in his defence were witnesses in the case of Haidar Baksh.
He did not attempt to meet the case made out in the trial that the offence was against Sheela Devi.
The accused concentrated his cross-examination with reference to the said charge and elicited answers showing that he did not assault or outrage the modesty of Prakashi Devi.
7.  The following question therefore arises for our consideration: When the charge is that the accused assaulted 'X' and outraged her modesty, but the evidence is that he assaulted 'Y' to outrage her modesty, can the accused be punished, for having assaulting and outraging the modesty of 'Y', even though he was not charged with any offence with reference to 'Y', on the ground that the error or omission in the charge did not prejudice the accused or result in failure of justice.
Therefore, we are of the view that there should be a new trial after charging him with the offence of outraging the modesty of Sheela Devi.
The evidence of PW-1 and PW-2 was that the appellant did not touch or tease or abuse Prakashi Devi.
It was held that mentioning the name of Prakashi Devi instead of the name of Sheela Devi in the charge was an error that did not prejudice the accused.
An accused cannot be punished for committing an offence against 'Y' when he is charged with having committed the offence against 'X' and the entire defence of the accused was with reference to charge of having committed offence against 'X'.
However, when confronted with her statement recorded in the FIR, she admitted having stated that when the appellant had come first time at around 11.30 PM and broke the outside bulbs, her son woke up and went out of the house.
1.  An FIR was registered on 23.3.1996 on the statement of one Prakashi Devi.
A was never charged with any murder but one, and had heard the inquiry before the Magistrate, which referred exclusively to the case of Haidar Baksh.
464 provides that if the court of appeal, confirmation or revision is of opinion that failure of justice has in fact been occasioned, it may -- (a) in the case of an omission to frame a charge, order that a charge be framed and that the trial be recommended from the point immediately after the framing of the charge; (b) in case of an error, omission or irregularity in the charge, direct a new trial to be had upon a charge framed in whatever manner it thinks fit.
(e) A was charged with murdering Haidar Baksh on the 20th January, 1882, and Khoda Baksh (who tried to arrest him for that murder) on the 21 st January, 1882.
Her daughter-in-law Sheela Devi gave evidence as PW-2 and stated that she was married to one Jaibir who worked in the military services; that at 11 to 11.30 PM the accused scaled the door and broke the bulbs in the verandah of her house; that when she identified the accused and raised an alarm the accused ran away; that again he came around 00.30 AM by scaling the door and caught her hand; and that when she raised an alarm and when her mother-in-law woke up, he ran away.
17.  As noticed above, in this case, the charge was that appellant committed trespass into the house of Prakashi Devi for assaulting Prakashi Devi, and assaulted the said Prakashi Devi and outraged her modesty.
