11.  By this transaction she substituted one property by another.
None of her children survived her.
The last decision referred to was the decision of the Privy Council in Mahomed Shumsool v. Shewukram 1874 Indlaw PC 12 (1874-75) 2 I.A. 7 There a Hindu inhabitant of Bihar by a document of a testamentary character declared his daughter who had two daughters, as his heir, and after her two daughters together with their children were declared heirs and malik.
2.  Ranganayaki entered into possession of the properties on the death of her husband.
As regards the payment of maintenance to be made to Chinnanmal alias Lakshmi Ammal, wife of my late son Hariharamayyan, my wife Ranganayaki Ammal shall pay the same as she pleases, and obtain a release deed".
After your lifetime Ramalakshmi Ammal, our daughter and wife of Rama Ayyar Avergal of Melagaram village, and her heirs shall enjoy them with absolute rights and powers of alienation such as gift, exchange, and sale from son to grandson and so on for generations.
1.  One Lakshminarayana Iyer, a Hindu Brahmin, who owned considerable properties in the Tirunelveli district, died on 13th December, 1924, leaving him surviving a widow Ranganayaki, and a married daughter Ramalakshmi.
There was a clear prohibition, forbidding the widow to make any transfers of the milkiuit estates and the slaves.
He omits the words 'during her life' with reference to the disposition in favour of the daughter.
Rani Dhun Kaur should not take an absolute estate, but that she should be succeeded in her estate by her two daughters.
In view of this finding he granted the plaintiff a declaratory decree to the effect that the first defendant had only an estate for life in the suit properties and that the alienations made by her would not endure beyond her lifetime.
A suit was instituted by the son's daughter for the recovery of possession of her share in one item of property forming, part of the estate which had been sold by section The question for decision in that case was whether section was at all entitled to sell anything more than her life interest even for purposes of meeting a necessity binding upon the estate.
In express terms he conferred on his daughter powers of alienation byway of gift, exchange, sale, but in sharp contrast to this, on his widow he conferred no such powers.
The question as to the validity of the alienations was left undetermined.
He also on the analogy of other wills and the decisions given on their terms wanted a decision on the construction of this will in his favour.
Ramalakshmi had married the plaintiff and had a number of children from him.
She certainly would have the power of selling her own estate; and it would further follow that Girdhari would not be possessed in any sense of a vested remainder, but merely of a contingent one.
A prayer was made that the widow be restrained from alienating the other properties in her possession.
Varadachari J. held that since in the will the gift over to the grand-children was of the entire Properties, and not a mere gift by way of defeasance, it had to be held that it indicated that the prior gift in favour of the widow was only of a limited interest.
According to Jarman (Jarman on Wills), the law leans in favour of vesting of estates and the property disposed of belongs to the object of the gift when the will takes effect and we think the daughter got under this will a vested interest in the testator's properties on his death.
For the purpose of her maintenance, for payment of debts etc., and for settling the claim of the daughter-in-law she does not appear to have felt any necessity to make any alienation of any part of the estate mentioned in the schedule and the testator in all likelihood knew that she could fulfil these obligations without having recourse to alienations and hence he did not give her any power to do so.
Under that law she has the power to alienate the estate for the benefit of the soul of the husband, for pilgrimage and for the benefit of the estate and for other authorized purposes.
On the 19th September, 1945, an ad interim injunction was issued by the High Court restraining the widow from alienating the properties in her possession and forming part of her husband's estate, Inspite of this injunction, on the 27th September, 1945, she executed two deeds of settlement in favour of the other defendants comprising a number of properties.
16.  This will was construed as conveying an absolute estate to the son and the daughter of the niece.
The direction to her was that she should enjoy the entire properties including the outstandings etc.
express restriction against alienation, the estate taken by section (the niece) was an estate such as a woman ordinarily acquires by inheritance under the Hindu law which she holds in a completely representative character but is unable to alienate except in case of legal necessity and that such a construction was in accordance with the ordinary notions that a Hindu has in regard to devolution of his property.
The High Court by its judgment under appeal affirmed the decision of the trial judge and maintained his view on the construction of the will.
7.  The widow in such a case takes as a demise and not as an heir.
The court's primary duty in such cases is to ascertain from the language employed by the testator "what were his intentions", keeping in view the surrounding circumstances, his ordinary notions as a Hindu in respect to devolution of his property, his family relationships etc.; in other words, to ascertain his wishes by putting itself, so to say, in his armchair.
28.  The learned counsel for the respondent followed the line adopted by Mr. Krishnaswami Iyengar.
This will was couched in different language than the will in the present case.
20.  The following remarks in the Privy Council decision in Nathu, Ram Mahajan v. Gangayabai (1938) 2 M.L.J. 562 were next cited:-- "As the will gave her the right to 'enjoy' the income of the estate during her lifetime, it was evidently contemplated that she should, as provided by -the Hindu law in the case of a widow, be in possession of the estate.
If the two could not agree and live together amicably, my wife would pay Rs. 4,000 and separate him and then my wife would enjoy all the remaining properties with absolute rights.
What is given must be gathered from the language of the will in the light of the surrounding circumstances.
Chunderbutti, his wife, was in these terms: "the remaining 'milkiut' and 'minhai ' 'estates, together with the amount of ready money, articles, slaves, and all household furniture I have placed in the possession of Mst.
In a suit by the respondent against his grandmother the daughter of the 'testator for a declaratory order preserving unmolested his future right and title to the said lands, it was held that the daughter took an estate subject to her daughters succeeding her.
On the 18th September, 1945, the suit out of which this appeal arises was instituted by the plaintiff, the husband and the sole heir of Ramalakshmi, for a declaration that the said sale would not be binding on him beyond the lifetime of the widow.
But there were other indications in that will showing that a widow's estate had been given.
12.  It cannot be said that a Hindu widow can only alienate her husband's estate for payment of debts, to meet maintenance charges and for her own maintenance.
If she took the estate only of a Hindu widow, one consequence, no doubt, would be that she would be unable to alienate the profits, or that at all events, whatever she purchased out of them would be an increment to her husband's estate, and the plaintiffs would be entitled to recover possession of all such property, real and personal.
35.  He also emphasized that the words of the gift over to the daughter as supporting his construction which was further reinforced by the words of the will limiting the widow's estate " till your lifetime " and of the omission from therein of words such as nialik etc., while describing the widow's estate.
Though the daughter was not entitled to immediate possession of the property it was indicated with certainty that she should get the entire estate at the proper time and she thus got an interest in it on the testator's death.
At page 193 of the report it was observed as follows: "The question therefore arises, did he intend to confer only a life estate or a daughter's estate? It seems to us that he meant to give a daughter's estate rather than a life estate.
