However, the parties shall bear their own costs.
Section 9-A, which was inserted by Act 24 of 1994 with effect from 25th January, 1994, confers all such jurisdiction, powers and authority as were exercisable, immediately before such commencement by any Civil Court in relation to the matter specified therein.
He may not, in these circumstances, explain transactions before the Income Tax authorities, in case his position is prejudicially affected in defending criminal charges.
" 19.  It has further been held that the property, be shares, dividends and bonus and rights shares, would also be attached property.
In construing a special statute providing for limitation, consideration of plea of hardship is irrelevant.
(ii) the amount of priority demand of Income Tax liabilities comes to Rs. 18,297,576,248.
One of the flats being flat No. 202, Arunachal Bhawan, Barakhamba Road, is subject matter of a separate proceeding pending before this Court, viz., Civil Appeal No. 681 of 2004.
33.  In arriving at the said finding, no contention of the parties raised in their respective affidavits had been adverted to nor any material filed before it was analysed.
Lucknow and others [AIR 1968 All 246], 1967 Indlaw ALL 16 but as observed hereinbefore, it would not be proper for us to consider as to whether such a remedy being not available, in terms of section 4(2) of the Act can still be determined if raised by way of defence.
Any prosecution in respect of any offence referred to in sub-s.
It seems to us that to give to section 3(3) the wide meaning that has been ascribed to it in the judgment and order under appeal would render it perilously close to being held unconstitutional, for it would deprive the notified person, so long as he remained a notified person, from earning a livelihood.
(vii) The Appellants shall file their objections to the said report, if any, within ten days thereafter.
The apprehension expressed by the Special Court does not appear to be well founded: if what a notified person obtains by way of purported income or gift or inheritance is really his own money, such money would, upon establishment of the fact, stand attached automatically under the provisions of section 3(3).
No credit for Rs. 1227 crores released to revenue on interest are given by the Custodian.
These moneys were used for speculative transactions and securities and the profits generated was used for acquiring assets.
Before us, Mr. Desai had filed a chart for showing the same.
[1967 (2) SCR 77], 1966 Indlaw SC 120 this Court confirmed a sale in favour of the Appellant therein who was a stranger to the suit being the auction purchaser of the judgment-debtor's immovable property in execution of an ex parte money decree in terms of Order XXXI Rule 92, Civil Procedure Code.
The Appellants shall be entitled to take the help of a Chartered or Cost Accountant and may make notes therefrom for their use in the pending proceeding.
Despite the fact that ordinarily a sale can be set aside only under Rules 89, 90 and 91 of Order XXXI, it was opined that the court is bound to confirm the sale and direct the grant of a certificate vesting the title in the purchaser as from the date of sale when no application in term of Rule 92 was made or when such application was made and disallowed and in support thereof Zain-ul-Abdin Khan 1887 Indlaw PC 13 (supra) and various other decisions were referred to.
The Act would also have made provision for a subsistence allowance or the like for the notified person.
It is furthermore not in dispute that pursuant to or in furtherance of the directions issued by the learned Special Court, the accounts of all entities, be it corporate or individual, were drawn up separately which approach had not been dis-approved by the Auditor appointed by the Special Court.
Mr. Desai contended that if interest is calculated, liabilities would be more than assets.
It is not possible to comprehend how the liability would cease to be one because the assessee had taken proceedings before higher authorities for getting it reduced or wiped out so long as the contention of the assessee did not prevail with regard to the quantum of liability etc.
However, nexus between several persons in dealing with the matter may be established by the Custodian.
Where the assessment is based on proper material and pertains to the "statutory period", the Special Court may not reduce the tax claimed and pay it out in full.
Save and except for sufficient or cogent reasons, the learned Judge shall not grant any adjournment to either of the parties.
Even to say that such interpretation would reduce a notified person to beggary would not be accurate  because the alms that he received, being his property, would stand attached.
(2) of Section 4, however, provides for a hearing as regard correctness or otherwise of the notification notifying a person in this behalf, in the event, an appropriate application therefor is filed within 30 days of the issuance of such notification.
The parties shall file the written submissions filed before this Court together with all charts before the learned Special Judge, Special Court within eight weeks from date.
Such documents must be placed for inspection for one week continuously upon giving due notice therefor to the Appellants jointly.
(2) of section 3 pending in any Court is required to be transferred to the Special Court.
The provision contained in the Act being stringent in nature, the purport and intent thereof must be ascertained having regard to the purpose and object it seeks to achieve.
In a case of this nature when the Court accepts its own mistake in understanding the nature and purport of the undertaking given by the learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the Board and its correlation with as to what transpired in the AGM of the Board held on 29-9-2004, the subsequent event may be taken into consideration by the Court for the purpose of rectifying its own mistake.
But, the said chart has been drawn up on the basis of the audited accounts, the correctness whereof is itself in dispute.
It has, as noticed hereinbefore, further been contended that various best judgment assessment passed by the Assessing Authority against some of the Appellants have been set aside in appeal and the matters are pending reassessment before the Assessing Authority.
A reply and/ or rejoinder thereto shall be filed within one week from the date of the receipt of the copy of the objection.
" We must, however, notice that reliance was sought to be placed on the said judgment wherein reference was made to a Bombay High Court judgment in Hitesh Shantilal Mehta v. Union of India [(1992) 3 Bom CR 716] 1992 Indlaw MUM 6066 wherein it was held: "If the person ... approaches the Special Court and makes out, for example, a case that the property which is attached has no nexus of any sort with the illegal dealings in securities belonging to banks and financial institutions during the relevant period and/or that there are no claims or liabilities which have to be satisfied by attachment and sale of such property, in our view, the Special Court would have the power to direct the Custodian to release such property from attachment.
Appeals allowed.
The said chart, however, shows that at least Mrs. Deepika Mehta held assets more than her liabilities.
(ii) The applications for de-notification filed by the Appellants herein having been withdrawn, the contention raised by the Appellants that they are not liable in terms of the provisions of the Act are not open to question, particularly, in view of the fact that no application for de-notification could be filed subsequently as they had become barred by limitation.
(2) of section 3 to the Central Government or any State Government or any local authority; (b) all amounts due from the person so notified by the Custodian to any bank or financial institution or mutual fund; and (c) any other liability as may be specified by the Special Court from time to time." ANALYSIS OF THE STATUTORY PROVISIONS 14.  The Act provides for stringent measures.
The learned counsel for the Appellants proposes to offer his comments on the bids and the two orders of the Special Court.
TAX LIABILITY It is not in dispute that the tax liabilities of the Appellants individually were assessed on the basis of Best Judgment assessment.
In Kedarnath Jute Mfg. Co. Ltd. 1971 Indlaw SC 841 (supra), this Court has held: "Although that liability cannot be enforced till the quantification is effected by assessment proceedings, the liability for payment of tax is independent of the assessment.
It is no doubt true that the law of limitation bars a remedy but not a right.
It is not in dispute that the learned Special Court on or about 3.August.1993 issued directions in various proceedings before it appointing auditors to prepare and audit the books of accounts of all notified persons for the period 1.April.1990 and 8.June.1992, i.e., the date of the notification.
This also indicates that no separate notification or order in regard to the attachment is necessary.
APPLICATION FOR DE-NOTIFICATION 21.  The Appellants' case is that the individual and corporate Appellants other than Harshad Mehta, Ashwin Mehta and Sudhir Mehta filed applications, within the prescribed period, before the Special Court praying for their de-notifications.
Only because there had been large intermingling and flow of funds from Harshad Mehta and inter se within the group, the same by itself may not justify the conclusion that all of their assets were required to be sold irrespective of their individual involvement.
22.  It is not in dispute that the said applications are pending for consideration before the Special Court.
The assessee who is before the Special Court, is a person liable to be charged with an offence relating to transactions in securities.
Such subsequent events could also be taken into consideration for the purpose of review.
The contention of the Appellant to the effect that the income tax dues should have been considered at the point of time when they become recoverable cannot be accepted having regard to the 3-Judge Bench decision of this Court in B.C. Dalal 2005 Indlaw SC 1826 (supra) wherein this Court categorically held that in absence of any order of stay granted by the higher court, the liabilities would remain.
As the said question has not been gone into by the learned Judge, Special Court, it is necessary that the same be considered and appropriately dealt with.
Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code and any other law for the time being in force, the Special Court may make such order as it may deem fit directing the Custodian for the disposal of the property under attachment.
In fact, according to the Appellants, there are gross errors in the material relied upon by the Custodian.
(viii) Dr. Hitesh Mehta and Dr. Pratima Mehta who are medical practitioners by profession having affirmed affidavits admitting that the share broking and investment businesses which were part of family businesses were undertaken and conducted by late Harshad Mehta and they had no knowledge thereabout nor were they involved therewith, they at this stage cannot be permitted to turn round and contend that they have nothing to do with the liabilities of Late Harshad Mehta.
(3) of section 3 contains a non-obstante clause providing that on and from the date of notification under sub-section (2), any property, movable or immovable, or both, belonging to any person notified under that sub-section shall stand attached simultaneously with the issue of the notification and such attached properties may be dealt with by the Custodian in such manner as the Special Court may direct.
We, therefore, are of the opinion, in the interest of justice, that it is necessary to give another opportunity of hearing to the Appellants.
(ii) In Para 14 of the sur-rejoinder, the Appellants denied the asset and liability position as arrived at by the Custodian.
Therefore, the phrase "taxes due" cannot refer merely to a liability created by the charging section to pay the tax under the relevant law.
It must refer to an ascertained liability for payment of taxes quantified in accordance with law.
It was, thus, necessary for the learned Special Court to arrive at a firm conclusion as regard the involvement of the individuals with Harshad Mehta, if any, and the extent of his liability as such.
RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY In these appeals, we are concerned with sale of eight residential flats in a building known as Madhuli.
PRECEDENTS AS REGARD SCOPE OF THE ACT 15.  Constitutionality and / or interpretation of the Act came up for consideration before this Court in Harshad Shantilal Mehta 1998 Indlaw SC 732 v. Custodian and Others [(1998) 5 SCC 1] wherein the following questions were framed: "What is meant by revenues, taxes, cesses and rates due? Does the word "due" refer merely to the liability to pay such taxes etc., or does it refer to a liability which has crystallised into a legally ascertained sum immediately payable? Do the taxes [in cl.
By reason thereof, the property that belongs to a notified person stands attached simultaneously with the issue of the notification that makes him a notified party.
[L.S. Synthetics Ltd. 2004 Indlaw SC 715 (supra)] However, the contention of the Appellants that the properties held by them otherwise are sufficient to meet their liabilities was required to be gone into, as, in our considered opinion, there cannot be a any dispute that the Appellants have such a right.
(ii) Having regard to the fact that only three entitles out of eight were involved in the offences, the liability of Harshad Mehta could not have been clubbed for the purpose of directing attachment and consequent sale of the properties which exclusively belong to them.
" In regard to Question No. 5, this Court agreed with the finding of the Special Court that neither penalty nor interest can be considered as tax under section 11(2)(a) of the Act.
In the former event, even if such a decree is set aside, the interest of the bona fide purchaser in an auction sale is saved.
The right of a person notified to file an application or to raise a defence that he is not liable in terms of the provisions of the Act or in any event, the properties attached should not be sold in discharge of the liabilities can be taken at the initial stage by filing an application in terms of Sub-s.
(2) of section 3 postulates that the Custodian may, on being satisfied on information received that any person has been involved in any offence relating to transactions in securities after the 1st day of April, 1991 and on and before 6th June, 1992 (the Statutory Period), notify the name of such person in the Official Gazette.
(v) The Appellants having preferred appeals against the income tax orders of assessment passed by the authority and the same having been set aside, no liability to pay income tax by the Appellants as of now being existing, the residential properties could not have been sold.
THE ACT 11.  The Statement of Objects and Reasons for enacting the Act reads as under: "(1) In the course of the investigations by the Reserve Bank of India, large scale irregularities and malpractices were noticed in transactions in both the Government and other securities, indulged in by some brokers in collusion with the employees of various banks and financial institutions.
The impugned judgments are set aside and the matter is remitted to the learned Judge, Special Court for consideration of the matter afresh.
39.  In fact, the Appellants have brought on records various orders passed by Income Tax Appellate Authorities to show that the demands of the revenue have been set aside.
(v) Whether the residential properties should have been released from attachment.
Both the parties shall be entitled to inspect such documents and filed their responses thereto within one week thereafter.
Even in the rejoinder filed by the Custodian, e.g., paragraphs 14, 20, 21 and 22, before the Special Court, such contentions have been raised.
The Act confers wide power upon the Custodian and the learned Special Court and in that view of the matter, having regard to the principles of natural justice, the judgment and order of the learned Judge, Special Court should have furthermore been supported by sufficient and cogent reasons.
(v) As regard, sale of residential properties, an appropriate order may be passed by the learned Judge, Special Court in the light of the observations made hereinbefore.
The Custodian in a case of this nature may, however, show that the transactions entered into apparently by Harshad Mehta were intimately connected with acquisition of properties in the name of others.
(vi) We direct the Custodian to permit the Appellants to have inspection of all the documents in his power or possession in the premises of the Special Court in the presence of an officer of the court.
The Special Court is required to consider this question only from the point of view of distributing any part of the surplus assets in the hands of the Custodian after the discharge of liabilities sections 11(2)(a) and 11(2)(b).
1.  These appeals are directed against a judgment and order dated 17.October.2003 passed by the Special Court constituted under the Special Courts (Trial of Offences Relating to Transactions in Securities) Act, 1992 (for short "the Act") in Misc.
In our opinion, the learned Judge, Special Court should have analysed the respective contentions of the parties in greater details and in particular in regard to assets and liabilities of the separate entities and having regard to the contentions raised by them that they are not part of the Harshad Mehta Group and their individual liabilities can be met from the assets held and possessed by them separately.
