It is true that the maxim of the English law "quicquid plantatur solo, solo cedit" i.e. whatever is affixed to the soil belongs to the soil, is.
But the meaning to be ascribed to that word is that it connotes in its larger signification, products of the soil that are grown and raised yearly and are gathered during a single season.
with those specified in that section, to all of which the process of becoming ripe, and of being cut, gathered, made, and laid up when ripe, was incidental.
which belonged to him.
An appeal against it was dismissed on September 27, 1943.
While these passages might show that no notice of eviction was given, even at that stage there was no application for an issue being framed, nor has such an application been made in the appeal before the High Court, nor even before this Court.
Several issues were framed, but it is not necessary to refer to: them except to say that the suit was decreed only for Rs. 3000/being the value of the appellant's bungalow taken possession of by the respondent.
In that suit an injunction was prayed for in respect of 100 acres of the property involved in the suit, but the prayer was rejected.
Notice of this trespass was given to the defendant.
All this, according to the Trial Court, would show that the appellant was aware that he was remaining on Government lands without title.
The question before the Court was whether the plaintiffs were entitled to recover against the defendant damages caused to them by cutting down and carrying away the plaintiffs' trees.
The High Court issued a commission for inspecting the properties and the Commissioner in his report part 13 of Ext.
It appears that as there was no injunction restraining his dispossession in L.C. Case No. 112 of 11, 00 M.E. an order was passed for dispossessing the appellant on July 24.
Even in paragraph-4 of the plaint where he complains that no notice of forfeiture was given to him, he mentions only the items referred to in paragraph-3.
Once the appellant's counsel was confronted I with this proposition, he tried to raise an entirely new point, namely, that no notice of eviction was given to the appellant, and if such a notice had been given to him under section 9, he would have cut the trees and taken them away, within the time allowed for him to vacate the lands.
it is in this context that the respondent's contention that even if the appellants were considered to be mere trespassers they would still be entitled to the value of the improvements and contest the claim of the appellant was described, as already stated, as a far-reaching contention.
No doubt one of the meanings given in the Black's Law Dictionary does say that in a more restricted sense the word is synonymous with 'fructus industrials'.
The rest of the claim was dismissed.
An eviction under this section shall be made in the following manner, namely: By serving a notice on a person reported to be in occupation or his agent, requir ing him, within such time as the Division Peishkar may deem reasonable after receipt of the said notice to vacate the land, and if such notice is not obeyed, by removing or deputing a subordinate to remove any person who may refuse to vacate the same, and, if the officer removing any such person shall be resisted or obstructed by any person, the Division Peishkar shall hold a summary enquiry into the, facts of the case and, if satisfied that the resistance or obstruction still continues, may issue a warrant for the arrest of the said person, and on his appearance may send him with a warrant in the form of the Schedule for imprisonment in the Civil Jail of the District for such period not exceeding 30 days as may be necessary to prevent the continuance of such obstruction or resistance Provided that no person so committed or imprisoned under this section shall be liable to be prosecuted under sections 176, 179 and 181 of the Travancore Penal Code in respect of the same facts.
It is the case of the appellant that even, after the Act was passed, unauthorised occupants of land belonging to the Government who had made improvements therein had, under the rules made both under the Act and the Land Assignment Act a preferential claim over others for getting kuthakapattom or assignment of the property in their possession.
This section provides for two notices to be given one notice is to be given to the person who is in unauthorised occupation of Government land to vacate the land within a reasonable time and the other notice is to forfeit any crop or other product raised on the land or to remove any building or other structure erected or anything deposited therein within a reasonable time as may be stated in the notice.
Apart from this contention, towards the end of his argument, the learned advocate for the appellant sought to make out a fresh case, namely, that as the appellant was not served with a notice to quit as required under section 9 of the Act but was forcibly evicted without giving him an opportunity of cutting and taking away the trees etc.
The same dictionary gives the meaning of the word ,,product" as follows : "Product with reference to property, proceeds.
The High Court accepted the finding of the Trial Court on issue.
It is again stated in, paragraph-4 that "It was irregular on the part of Government to take possession of the above items".
The Court rejected the contention that the trees and shrubs could be detrained and held that the word product' in the eighth section of the statute did not extend to trees and shrubs growing in a nurseryman's ground, but that it was confined to products of a similar nature.
This case does not support the contention that a mere trespasser who has deliberately and wrongfully contrary to the provisions of section 5 of the Act, entered 'upon another's land which makes such an act even punishable under section 6 thereof, is entitled to compensation for the trees planted by him on the land.
The learned advocate for the appellant has reiterated the submissions made before the Trial Court and the High Court and contends that there is no order forfeiting the improvements as required under section 9 of the Act, and if section 9 does not apply and there is no right of forfeiture as contemplated under section 9, then the appellant is entitled to compensation under the general law.
The appellant had filed a suit on October 24, 1942, for the recovery of Rs. 2 lakhs and interest thereon from the date of suit and for costs originally against the State of Travancore now the State of Kerala-the respondent-and three others who however were not made parties in the appeal before the High Court.
It was pointed out by the learned advocate that the High Court was in error in equating other product raised on the land with emblements because the definition of crop in Black's Law Dictionary does include emblements, as such the words 'other product' cannot also be treated as emblements and must therefore be given a different meaning which according to him would include trees.
With respect to the allegation that an order of forfeiture was not served on the appellant under section 9 of the .Act, the Court observed that though the State had in its written statement contended that such an order had been passed, no order was produced in evidence and consequently it was conceded by the Government Pleader that no such order was passed.
On this issue it was held that no notice, of forfeiture of trees.
It has alleged in the plaint that the plaintiff (appellant) was wrongfully dispossessed from 160 acres of land along with the improvements which had been effected by him and as the State had appropriated those improvements without any right or title thereto he claimed the value of those improvements.
But this is not relevant as what has to be considered is whether trees can be said to be "other product raised on the land".
The respondent-State contended that the appellant encroached on the suit lands, that proceedings were taken against him in L.C. Case No. 112 of 11 00 M. E. and he was evicted in due course, that the trespass by the appellant was of recent origin, that the allegation that the entry was made in the belief that the land belonged to the Illom was false, that the Revenue and Forest Departments did not harass the appellant but they took steps for dispossessing him only in accordance with the law, that the Commissioner's report was not correct in that all the improvements noted by the Commissioner were not made by the appellant but by other independent squatters, that after due notice an order of forfeiture had been passed in L.C. Case No. 112 of 1100 M.E. and the appellant was therefore not entitled to claim any value for improvements as it was his duty to remove any building before he was evicted.
" Accordingly the High Court found that at no time the occupation of the land by the appellant was under a bona fide claim of title.
It is stated before us that at the time when the appellant was evicted the Transfer of Property Act was not in force.
That was a case in which the Government had taken possession of the lands and had erected certain building on the land before a decision under section 6 of the Land Acquisition Act was made as to the appellant's property arid it was contended that the appellant should be allowed the value of the land in the state in which it then was i.e. with buildings on it.
