We may notice that in Sk.
The said decision was rendered in a different fact situation.
The Consul (Economic), Consulate General of India at Dubai allegedly confirmed the existence of a parallel set of export invoices.
It is, however, stated that the records were tampered with at the instance of Appellant.
A letters patent appeal, concededly which was not maintainable, was filed thereagainst which was dismissed by reason of the impugned judgment.
You are, therefore, requested to supply photocopy of the said letter to the bearer of this letter as this letter is required for filing reply to the Hon'ble Court.
A report in relation to overseas inquiry was received on 12.5.2004.
19.  In a case of this nature, we do not think, in view of the admitted facts, that we would not permit Appellant to raise the said questions.
1.  Appellant before us was detained section 3 of the Conservation of Foreign Exchange and Prevention of Smuggling Activities Act, 1974 (for short "COFEPOSA").
This office never intended to stop the export incentives occurring to the parties, after the date of action i.e. 11.10.2003.
The respondent authority was not right in not placing it as it contains not only what is already referred to in the bail application dated 1-4-1999 but something more.
On their own showing, Respondents admit that they were relevant documents.
The said Prabhjot Singh was said to have been operating three firms, viz. M/s. S.P. Industrial Corporation, M/s. Aaysons (India) and M/s. P.J. Sales Corporation, Ludhiana.
9.  Indisputably, delay to some extent stands explained.
In fact, no reason in that behalf whatsoever has been assigned at all." 15.  Delay, as is well known, at both stages has to be explained.
He was discharged on bail on 6.1.2004.
The final order of detention was preceded not only on the basis of raids conducted in various premises, recording of statements of a large number of witnesses, carrying on intensive inquiries both within India and outside India, obtaining test reports from three different laboratories but also the fact that despite notices Appellant and his associates did not cooperate with the investigating authorities.
The officers of the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) searched the factory as well as the residential premises of Appellant and that of Prabhjot Singh.
18.  Although learned Additional Solicitor General may be correct in his submissions that ordinarily we should not exercise our discretionary jurisdiction article 136 of the Constitution of India by allowing Appellant to raise new grounds but, in our opinion, we may have to do so as an order of detention may have to be considered from a different angle.
We are, therefore, of the opinion that the view taken by the Bombay High Court in this behalf is unassailable.
33.  In view of our findings aforementioned, it is not necessary to consider the contention raised by Mr. Mukul Rohtagi that order of detention suffers from non-application of mind.
Upon exporting of alloy steel, it was entitled to credits under the Duty Entitlement Pass Book (DEPB) Scheme introduced by the Government of India with an object of encouraging exports.
Evidently, the detaining authority did not take immediate steps to detain Appellant.
What would have been the position if the detaining authority was apprised of the fact that Sowkath Ali had retracted his confession, is not for us to make a retrospective judgment at this distance of time.
(v) By orders dated 31.8.2004 and 28.10.2004, the Civil Judge directed release of documents to Appellant.
It is not sufficient to say that the detenus were not supplied the copies of the documents in time on demand but it must further be shown that the non-supply has impaired the detenu's right to make an effective and purposeful representation.
" 26.  In paragraph 36 of the order of detention, the detaining authority stated: "In view of the facts mentioned above, I have no hesitation in arriving at the conclusion that you have through your acts of omission and commission indulged in prejudicial activities as narrated above.
13.  We may also place on record that Sen., J. in Rajendrakumar Natvarlal Shah 1988 Indlaw SC 71 (supra), while laying down various stages of the procedures leading to an order of detention, opined that rule as to unexplained delay in taking action is not inflexible and a detention under COFEPOSA may be considered from a different angle.
Prabhjot Singh allegedly admitted to have supplied fake bills to units owned and controlled by Appellant on commission basis without actual supply of the goods.
12.  It is no doubt true that if the delay is sufficiently explained, the same would not be a ground for quashing an order of detention under COFEPOSA, but as in this case a major part of delay remains unexplained.
The said documents, in our opinion, were material.
" 24.  In P. Saravanan v. State of T.N. and Others [(2001) 10 SCC 212], it was stated: "When we went through the grounds of detention enumerated by the detaining authority we noticed that there is no escape from the conclusion that the subjective satisfaction arrived at by the detaining authority was the cumulative result of all the grounds mentioned therein.
It had specifically been referred to in extenso in the order of detention.
23.  The question has been considered by this Court in Rajinder Arora 2006 Indlaw SC 87 (supra) stating: "Admittedly, furthermore, the status report called for from the Customs Department has not been taken into consideration by the competent authorities.
(vi) By an order dated 18.11.2004, the Civil Court issued contempt notice to the authorities of DRI for non-release of documents and the authorities of DRI made a statement before the court that the documents are being returned.
The letter dated 19-4-1999 reached the sponsoring authority and reached well within time for it being placed before the detaining authority.
What is necessary to be supplied is the relevant and the material documents, but, thus, all relevant documents must be supplied so as to enable the detenue to make an effective representation which is his fundamental right article 22(5) of the Constitution of India.
The statements of Appellant and the said Prabhjot Singh were recorded therein in extenso.
of value ranging from Rs. 15/- to Rs. 17/- per kg. were exported in the guise of alloy steel forgings, bars, rods, etc.
32.  The detaining authority moreover while relying on the said documents in one part of the order of detention could not have stated in another part that he was not relying thereupon.
Before us, several other grounds, viz., non placement of vital/ material documents before the detaining authority, non- supply of documents relied on or referred to in the order of detention as also non-application of mind on the part of the detaining authority had been raised.
4.  Although before the High Court, the principal ground urged on behalf of Appellant in questioning the legality or validity of the order of detention was unexplained delay in passing the order of detention which did not find favour with the High Court.
There is an obligation cast on the sponsoring authority to place it before the detaining authority, which has not been done.
