This argument however cannot avail the appellants.
On the 10th June, 1891, he made and published his last will and testament whereby he dedicated to this family idol Shree Shree Iswar Sridhar Jew his two immoveable properties, to wit, premises No. 41 and No. 40/1.
The further contention urged on behalf of the appellants in regard to the disallowance of the sum of Rs. 19,000 by the appeal court could not be and was not seriously pressed before us and does not require any consideration.
A consent decree was passed in the said suit on the 9th September, 1929.
His two elder brothers Jnanendra and Bhupendra were declared to be the then sevayats, but a right was reserved to Nagendra to join with them as a sevayat on, his attaining majority.
The first contention of the appellants is clearly untenable on the very language of the will of Dwarka Nath.
Disputes arose between Bhupendra, jnanendra and Nagendra, the sons of Rajendra, and one Kedar Nath Ghosh was appointed arbitrator to settle those disputes.
On my demise none of my heirs and representatives shall ever be competent to take the income of the said land No. 40/1 and spend (the same)for household expenses.
On the 23rd February, 1927, Nagendra executed a deed of settlement of the said premises by which he appointed his wife Labanyalata and his wife's brother Samarendra Nath Mitter trustees to carry out the directions therein contained and in pursuance of the deed of settlement he gave up possession of the said premises in favour of the trustees.
So far as Nagendra is concerned there is a clear finding of fact recorded by Mr. Justice Bose on a specific issue raised in that behalf, viz, "Did Nagendra act as shebait of the plaintiff deity under the wills of Dwarka Nath Ghosh and Rajendra Nath Ghosh ?" that he did act as such shebait and that his possession of the premises No. 41A Grey Street was referable to possession on behalf of the idol, 30 .This finding was not challenged in the appeal court and it is too late to challenge the same before us.
Nagendra died in June, 1931, and the said premises were ultimately put up for sale in execution of the mortgage decree and were purchased on the 9th December, 1936, by Hari Charan Dutt, Hari Pada Dutt and Durga Charan Dutt for a sum of Rs. 19,000.
against the shebaits on the idol's behalf and, in the present case, it may be said that the acts of the shebaits must have I been notorious in the family.
Probate of the will of Dwarka Nath was also obtained by jogendra on the 31st August, 1909.
41-A and 40/2-A Grey Street, were its absolute properties and for possession thereof, for a declaration that the consent decree dated the 24th November, 1910, in Suit No. 969 of 1909 and the award dated the 12th October, 1920, and the dealings made by the heirs of jogendra and/or Rajendra relating to the said premises or any of them purporting to affect its rights in the said premises were invalid and inoperative in law and not binding on it, for an account of the dealings with the said premises, for a scheme of management of the debutter properties and for its worship, for discovery, receiver, injunction and costs.
3 of the said will provided "With a view to provide a permanent habitation for the said deity, I do by means of this will, dedicate the aforesaid immovable property the said house No. 41 Grey Street together with land thereunder to the said Sri Sri Issur Sridhar Jew.
In regard however to the cross-objection relating to premises No. 40/2-A Grey Street which was directed against Sushilabala and the two sons of jogendra the learned judges held that the cross-objection against the co-respondents was not maintainable and dismissed the same with costs.
The appeal, and the cross-objections came on for hearing before Harries C. J. and section N. Banerjee J., who delivered judgment on the 5th March, 1951, dismissing the said appeal and allowing the cross-objection in regard to Rs. 19,000 filed by the idol against the appellants.
This is an appeal on a certificate article 133(1) of theConstitution from a judgment and decree passed by the Appellate Bench of the High Court of Calcutta, modifying on appeal the judgment and decree passed by Mr. Justice Bose on the original side of that court.
he result therefore is that the appeal fails and must stand dismissed with costs.
The first mortgage was created by him in favour of Snehalata Dutt on the 19th May, 1926.
Neither Nagendra nor the appellants who derive their title from the auction sale held on the 9th December, 1936, could therefore claim to have perfected their title to the premises No. 41-A Grey Street by adverse possession.
The idol was declared entitled to possession of the said premises with mesne profits for three years prior to the institution of the suit till delivery of possession, but was ordered to pay as a condition for recovery of possession of the said premises a sum of Rs. 19,000 to the appellants with interest thereon at the rate of 6 per cent.
, of the said Sri Sri Issur Sridhar Jew Salagram Sila Thakur and on the death of my said two sons their representatives, successors and heirs shall successively perform the sheba in the aforesaid manner and the executors appointed by this will of mine having got the said two properties registered in the Calcutta Municipality in the name of the said Sri Sri Issur Sridhar Jew Thakur shall pay the municipal taxes, etc.' and shall take the municipal bills in his name.
Dwarka Nath died on the 16th March, 1892, leaving him surviving his widow Golap Sundari and his two sons Rajendra and Jogendra.
