(1) continue in force as if they were made under this Act.
On or about 17.3.1997, however, they began receiving a salary of Rs.1500/- per month.
There shall, however, be no order as to costs.
This is what this Court had to say in that regard.
Amar Singh and Others, (2003) 5 SCC 388 2003 Indlaw SC 331] 38.
Recently in M.P. Electricity Board vs Hariram etc.
It is furthermore evident that the persons appointed as daily wagers held no posts.
The said decisions, thus, are of no assistance in this case.
Sd/- C.E.O. 23.10.91" 12.
At this stage it may be useful to refer to a judgment of this Court in the case of Muncipal Corporation, Faridabad vs Siri Niwas (JT 2004 (7) SC 248) 2004 Indlaw SC 719 wherein this Court disagreed with the High Court's view of drawing an adverse inference in regard to the non-production of certain relevant documents.
In this case except the Nodal Centre functions and supervision of the cooperative society, the State has no administrative control over its day to day affairs.
However, we may hasten to add that regularization itself does not imply permanency.
[See State of U.P. & Others Vs.
A Court of Law even in a case where provisions of the Indian Evidence Act apply, may presume or may not presume that if a party despite possession of the best evidence had not produced the same, it would have gone against his contentions.
The submission of Mr. M.N. Rao to the effect that the principle of equity should be invoked in their case is stated to be rejected.
A daily wager in absence of a statutory provision in this behalf would not be entitled to regularization.
The nature of their employment continues save and except a case where a statute interdicts which in turn would be subject to the Constitutional limitations.
It may be true that the Appellants had been later on put on a monthly salary but there is nothing on record to show as to how the same was done.
CONCLUSION For the reasons aforementioned, we do not find any merit in these appeals, which are dismissed accordingly.
PROJECT WORK : This case involves 31 employees.
An adverse inference need not necessarily be drawn only because it would be lawful to do so.
By reason of the impugned judgment dated 26.4.2000, the said writ petition was allowed.
Concededly, the Respondent Authority before making any appointment neither intimated the Employment Exchange about the existing vacancies, if any, nor issued any advertisement in relation thereto.
Whether the person making an appointment had the requisite jurisdiction or not is also not clear.
The recruitments of the Appellants do not fall in any of the said categories.
The above burden having not been discharged and the Labour Court having held so, in our opinion, the Industrial Court and the High Court erred in basing an order of re-instatement solely on an adverse inference drawn erroneously.
However, it has been seen that even services of one of them had been requisitioned only for the project work.
The State has not created any post nor they could do so on their own.
The State has not borne any part of the financial burden.
It was within its jurisdiction to do so particularly having regard to the nature of the evidence adduced by the Respondent.
The application calling for the production of the documents was for the years 1987 to 1992.
For the purpose of regularization which would confer on the concerned employee a permanent status, there must exist a post.
The process of regularization involves regular appointment which can be done only in accordance with the prescribed procedure.
The Scheme of the employees provident fund or the leave rules would not alter the nature and character of their appointments.
Furthermore, from the reliefs claimed, it would appear that the Appellants had, inter alia, prayed for continuance of their services by the Indore Municipal Corporation which knocks off the very basis of their claim.
The respondent workers cannot be held to hold any posts to claim even comparison with the regular and permanent staff for any or all purposes including a claim for equal pay and allowances.
The Labour Court could not have granted any relief to them as prayed for, as Indore Municipal Corporation is a separate juristic person having been created under a statute.
In any event, in this case, we have proceeded on the basis that the assertions of the Appellants as regard nature of their employment, their continuance in the job for a long time are correct and as such the question as to whether any adverse inference should be drawn for alleged production of documents called for would take a back seat.
The Appellants were aware of the said fact and, thus, raised an alternative plea in their statements of claims.
It is also not the case of the Appellants that their names had appeared in the service book maintained for the said purpose.
In A. Umarani vs Registrar, Cooperative Societies and Ors.
Furthermore, when their services had not been regularized and they had continued on a consolidated pay on ad hoc basis having not undergone the process of regular appointments, no direction to give regular pay scale could have been issued by the Labour Court.
A demand which was not raised at the time of raising the dispute could not have been gone into by the Labour Court being not the subject-matter thereof.
They might have been subjected to the provisions of the employees provident fund and might have been granted the benefit of leave or given some employment code and their names might have found place in the seniority list amongst others, but thereby they cannot be said to have been given a permanent ticket.
Such a relief would have been beyond the scope and purport of the reference made to the Labour Court by the State Government.
One of such documents was offers of appointment.
However, having regard to the facts and circumstances of the said case, some directions were issued presumably in terms of article 142 of the Constitution.
A State before offering public service to a person must comply with the Constitutional requirements of articles 14 and 16 of the Constitution.
It was urged that the expression 'clear vacancies' has to be read in the context of period for which the concerned workman was required to work, namely, six months.
Furthermore, the Indore Municipal Corporation was not a party and, thus, no employee could be thrust upon it without its consent.
ADVERSE INFERENCE : Some documents were said to have been called for from the Respondents which are said to have been not produced.
Indisputably, the conditions precedent for appointment of the officers and servants of the Authority, as contained in the Service Rules had not been complied with.
The questions which have been raised before us by Dr. Dhawan had not been raised before the Labour Court.
Had the appointments of the Appellants been made in terms of the provisions of the Adhiniyam and Rules framed thereunder, the Respondent-Authority was statutorily enjoined to make an offer of appointment in writing which was to be accepted by the Appellants herein.
The said dispute was referred for adjudication of the Labour Court, Indore, by the State of Madhya Pradesh on the following questions : "(1)Whether non-regularisation of the Sub-Engineers (as per the listed enclosed) is valid and proper? If no, then to which relief they are entitled and what directions should be given to the employer? (2)Whether it is valid and proper for not giving equal salary to these Sub Engineers like other Sub Engineers in accordance with the equal work? If no, then to which relief they are entitled and what directions should be given to the employer?" 4. PROCEEDINGS BEFORE THE TRIBUNAL : The parties filed their respective pleadings before the Labour Court and also adduced their respective evidences.
The appointees have no right for regularization in the service because of the erroneous procedure adopted by the concerned authority in appointing such persons.
The question, therefore, which arises for consideration is as to whether they could lay a valid claim for regularization of their services.
The proviso appended to section 47 of the Adhiniyam further mandates that no post shall be created in any authority without the prior sanction of the State Government.
What can be regularized is an irregularity and not an illegality.
APPLICATION OF THE ACT AND THE RULES : The 1961 Act was enacted to provide for rules defining with sufficient precision in certain matters the conditions of employment of employees in undertakings in the State of Madhya Pradesh.
The only provision as regard recruitment of the employees is contained in Order 4 which merely provides that the Manager shall within a period of six months, lay down the procedure for recruitment of employees and notify it on the notice board on which Standing Orders are exhibited and shall send copy thereof to the Labour Commissioner.
