30.  In the case of State of A.P. v. Rayavarapu Punnayya, (1976) 4 SCC 382, 1976 Indlaw SC 192 this Court observed as follows at page 386: "12.
The distinguishing feature of the mens rea requisite u/cl.
Rajwant Singh v. State of Kerala is an apt illustration of this point.
" 18.
There is no evidence to show that at that point of time, PW-21 seized any articles or interrogated any witnesses or took any other action in initiating or in furtherance of investigation.
The discrepancies which were sought to be pointed out are minor discrepancies without in any manner affecting the substratum of the prosecution case and therefore, minor discrepancies in the evidence of the eye-witnesses are immaterial.
On enquiring from her, PW- 21 learnt that her name was 'Yeshoda' who was later on arrayed as Accused No. 3.
On 28.04.1988, that is, after about 9 days of the incident, Accused Nos. 1 and 2 surrendered before the police and on their surrender they were taken into custody.
He gave instructions to his subordinate and also to the people around that nobody should touch any article lying at the scene of occurrence.
After completion of the arguments the trial court reserved the verdict.
Not finding the appellant and accused no.2 in the house, Dy.
This Court has observed as follows in the case of Dinesh Kumar v. State of Rajasthan, (2008) 8 SCC 270 2008 Indlaw SC 2034, : "11.
From the records, it appears that the distance between the place where the accident took place and the village in question was not much.
It was not necessary for him to take that step only on the basis of a first information report.
The accused pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.
There is no evidence on record before us to hold either way for no such issue was raised either before the trial court or before the High Court nor any evidence was led by the defence in respect of the said issue which is sought to be raised at this stage.
It was further alleged by PW-1 that two or three days before the Ganesh Festival, deceased Rauji had informed Narayan that he would install statue of Lord Ganesh in the house and accordingly, he had purchased the same.
He stated that he made preliminary enquiry and brought Yashoda and her two daughters to the police station and sent two other officers in search of Accused Nos. 1 and 2 who were not found in the house.
The juvenile offender, Sarita went inside the house and brought out one iron pipe which she handed over to the appellant who then hit the said pipe on the right leg of PW-1 and also gave a blow with the said pipe on Rauji's right hand.
There is also evidence on record to show that even outsiders were watching the incident from the road which indicates that there was sufficient light for them to see what was happening in the house where the incident had taken place.
Law is fairly well settled that even if acquittal is recorded in respect of the co-accused on the ground that there were exaggerations and embellishments, yet conviction can be recorded if the evidence is found cogent, credible and truthful in respect of another accused.
The ingredients of clause "thirdly" of section 300 IPC were brought out by the illustrious Judge in his terse language as follows: "12.
It is to be noted that PWs 7 and 13 were the injured witnesses and PW 10 was another eyewitness and was the informant.
They came back after a short while hearing the cries of PW 1.
Reference in this regard may be made to the decision of this Court in Ruli Ram v. State of Haryana, (2002) 7 SCC 691 2002 Indlaw SC 1927; Augustine Saldanha v. State of Karnataka, (2003) 10 SCC 472; 2003 Indlaw SC 674 State of U. P. v. Virendra Prasad, (2004) 9 SCC 37; 2004 Indlaw SC 60 Chacko v. State of Kerala, (2004) 12 SCC 269; 2004 Indlaw SC 20 section N. Bhadolkar v. State of Maharasthra, (2005) 9 SCC 71; 2004 Indlaw SC 268 and Jagriti Devi v. State of H. P., JT 2009 (8) SC 648.
It was also alleged that the other juvenile offender, Sharmila brought a cement block shaped like an elephant trunk, which she handed over to Accused No. 3 with which Accused No. 3 started assaulting Rauji.
On receipt of the aforesaid message, PW-21 along with ASI Tabit Mamlekar went to the scene of offence.
It was found that Accused No. 1 was having injury on his back and he was medically examined.
At that time, the appellant who was holding the knife in his hand, handed over the same to Accused No. 3 by which she assaulted PW-8 but PW-8 caught the knife in her hand which caused injury to her right palm.
17.  Learned counsel appearing for the appellant was critical of the manner in which PW-21 initiated the investigation without recording any G.D. entry and without getting any FIR recorded.
Therefore, he proceeded to survey the place of occurrence with the help of torches.
He also stated that he got the complaint registered at the police station which was lodged by PW-1 and that on the next day he again went to the scene of offence and seized the properties involved in the crime which were sealed.
2, 8, 18 and the complainant herself (PW-1).
The Investigating Officer is, for this purpose, entitled to question persons who, in this opinion, are able to throw light on the offence which has been committed and is likewise entitled to question the suspect and is entitled to reduce the statements of persons questioned by him to writing.
(2) is the knowledge possessed by the offender regarding the particular victim being in such a peculiar condition or state of health that the internal harm caused to him is likely to be fatal, notwithstanding the fact that such harm would not in the ordinary way of nature be sufficient to cause death of a person in normal health or condition.
The place of occurrence is a residence inhabited by both the parties and there is no evidence on record that the deceased was armed with any weapon.
On the basis of complaint made by PW-1, an FIR was registered and the accused came to be arrested.
34.  Accordingly, we convict the appellant under Section 304, Part II of IPC and sentence him to undergo imprisonment for a period of 7 years.
In Virsa Singh v. State of Punjab4 1958 Indlaw SC 82 Vivian Bose, J. speaking for the Court, explained the meaning and scope of cl.
1, 2, 8 and 18 is convincing and reliable but so far as the evidence of PW-4 is concerned, the High Court has made an observation that he is not a reliable witness.
She submitted that the High Court rightly interfered with the order of acquittal passed by the trial court after critically examining the evidence on record.
He further submitted that there was not only shifting of time of the alleged occurrence but also shifting of the place of occurrence from the hall to the outside verandah and courtyard to suit the convenience of the prosecution case.
So, it was only Injury No. 1 which was fatal in nature.
Since there were two juvenile offenders there cases were segregated and the trial against Accused Nos. 1, 2 and 3 was conducted during the course of which a number of eye-witnesses were examined on behalf of the prosecution.
Instances of cases falling u/cl.
He also submitted that the High Court has not given any reason for setting aside the appeal against acquittal which was passed after appreciating the entire evidence on record.
2009 Indlaw SC 859 33.  That being the well settled legal position, when we test the factual background of the present case on the principles laid down by this Court in the aforesaid decisions, we are unable to agree with the views taken by the High Court.
Therefore, the alleged discrepancy cannot be said to be very vital as it has been held by this Court in several decisions that ocular evidence cannot be brushed aside only because, to some extent, it is not in consonance with the medical evidence.
(b) of section 299 conveys the sense of probable as distinguished from a mere possibility.
That being the factual position, we are of the considered view that the present case cannot be said to be a case section 302 IPC but it is a case falling under section 304 Part II IPC.
" 26.  The aforesaid eye-witnesses were cross-examined at length but even after such lengthy cross-examination these eye-witnesses account could not be shaken.
16.  The starting point of the incident in question as indicated from the evidence on record is the hall where apparently a dispute started between the parties with regard to the electricity connection in the house.
It was also alleged that after the deceased Rauji fell down on the ground, Accused No. 3 kicked him.
When they went there, the appellant went to his mother's room and brought a knife with which he stabbed Rauji.
PW-21 was also informed by said by said PSI K.K. Desai of Panaji Police Station that it was a case of assault and that the incident had taken place at verandah and that the said matter pertains to his police station and, therefore, he should take appropriate action.
He further stated that the death was caused due to hemorrhage and shock as a result of stab injury.
If, however, the appellant does not surrender by himself, the State shall take necessary steps to rearrest him to undergo the remaining part of sentence.
At that time all the accused persons were in the balcony.
The information received by him was very cryptic and without any detail about the incident in question and, therefore, in any case, there was no possibility of recording an FIR at that stage.
(b) of section 299 does not postulate any such knowledge on the part of the offender.
25.  The aforesaid eye-witnesses, although, are related witnesses, were natural witnesses for they were the inmates of the house where the incident had taken place.
The mere fact that the witnesses were related to the deceased cannot be a ground to discard their evidence.
In the meanwhile, residents of the locality had gathered in the courtyard and told the accused persons not to assault Rauji.
The said eye-witnesses are consistent about the principal act of the appellant in stabbing the deceased.
When and if there is intent and knowledge then the same would be a case of section 304 Part I and if it is only a case of knowledge and not the intention to cause murder and bodily injury, then the same would be a case of section 304 Part II.
The place of occurrence was in total darkness and even the persons belonging to the complainant side were not available, therefore, bringing them to the police station where there was sufficient light and recording the complaint at 3.00 a.m. cannot, in any manner, cast any doubt on the veracity of the prosecution case.
Not only the accused persons fled away, all others also did, including PWs 3 and 4.
Then, Accused No. 3 told the appellant and Accused No. 2 to finish off Rauji first.
PW-1 also alleged that on 19.04.1988 the deceased Rauji returned from his duty at about 6.30 p.m. and thereafter went to purchase some articles.
But the main object of investigation being to bring home the offence to the offender the essential part of the duties of an investigating officer in this connection is, apart from arresting the offender, to collect all material necessary for establishing the accusation against the offender.
In that view of the matter we do not agree with the counsel appearing for the appellant that delay in transmitting the FIR to the Magistrate stands proved in the present case.
1.  The present appeal arises out of the judgment and order dated 01.07.2002 passed by the High Court of Bombay at Goa in Criminal Appeal No. 6 of 2000 convicting the accused-appellant section 302 of the Indian Penal Code (for short the 'the IPC') and sentencing him to undergo life imprisonment for the offence by setting aside the order of acquittal passed by the trial court.
It is also the case of the prosecution that as a result of the aforesaid stab injuries given to the deceased, he expired on the same day i.e. on 19.04.1988.
He has drawn our attention towards the entire evidence on record including the cross-examination part and with the help of the same he submitted that the entire alleged incident in question had taken place when there was complete darkness at the scene of occurrence.
This is the lowest type of culpable homicide and the punishment provided for it is, also, the lowest among the punishments provided for the three grades.
The mental element in culpable homicide i.e. mental attitude towards the consequences of conduct is one of intention and knowledge.
Therefore, recording of the FIR at about 3.00 a.m. in the morning was justified and properly explained and it cannot be said that there was any delay in recording the FIR.
Records clearly establish that there was indeed a scuffle between the parties with regard to the availability of electricity in a particular room and during the course of scuffle the appellant also received an injury which was simple in nature and that there was heated exchange of words and scuffle between the parties before the actual incident of stabbing took place.
Even assuming that PW-21, the Investigating Officer could have entered the aforesaid information received from PSI of Panaji Police Station in the general diary, yet they said entry could not have been held or treated to be an FIR.
From the evidence on record it does not appear to us that any suggestion was given to the said witness to the effect that the copy of the FIR was not sent or that it was dispatched late, which if given, would have given an opportunity to the witness to afford some explanation or to show as to when the FIR, was sent to and received by the Magistrate.
When an information is received by an officer in charge of a police station, he in terms of the provisions of the Code was expected to reach the place of occurrence as early as possible.
If some incident had taken place in a bus, the officers of Road Transport Corporation also could not ignore the same.
But, in any case, there was an electricity light post in the front of the house which was giving enough light to the house.
" 21.  The ratio of the aforesaid decision is squarely applicable to the facts of the present case.
Only the intention of causing the bodily injury coupled with the offender's knowledge of the likelihood of such injury causing the death of the particular victim, is sufficient to bring the killing within the ambit of this clause.
At this, the deceased became annoyed and the appellant removed the fuse of the electricity which act of his plunged the entire house into darkness.
It will be sufficient to say that cl.
24.  Besides, all the aforesaid eye-witnesses were inmates of the house and they would know as to who had given the blows for they specifically stated that initially the appellant did not have the knife in his hand but when the deceased and others went to the balcony then he went inside the house and brought a knife with which he gave stab injuries to the deceased which became fatal and as a result of which the deceased died while he was being taken to the hospital.
A scuffle started between the nephew and the uncle in which the accused persons also received injuries and, therefore, the right of private defence of the appellant was available and in that view of the matter, the order of conviction and sentence is liable to be set aside.
What is investigation is not defined in the Code of Criminal Procedure; but in H.N. Rishbud and Inder Singh v. State of Delhi 1954 Indlaw SC 14 this Court has described, the procedure, for investigation as follows: "Thus, under the Code investigation consists generally of the following steps, (1) Proceeding to the spot, (2) Ascertainment of the facts and circumstances of the case, (3) Discovery and arrest of the suspected offender, (4) Collection of evidence relating to the commission of the offence which may consist of (a) the examination of various persons (including the accused) and the reduction of their statements into writing, if the officer thinks fit, (b) the search of places of seizure of things considered necessary for the investigation and to be produced at the trial, and (5) formation of the opinion as to whether on the material collected there is a case to place the accused before a Magistrate for trial and if so taking the necessary steps for the same by the filing of a charge-sheet section 173." This Court, however, has not said that if a police officer takes merely one or two of the steps indicated by it, what he has done must necessarily be regarded as investigation.
There was already an oil lamp burning which was attached to the ceiling by a brass chain.
On receiving the said message he went to the place of occurrence along with PSI K.K. Desai and upon reaching the place of occurrence at 11.30 p.m. he found the entire place plunged in total darkness.
11.  The appellant herein, being aggrieved by the aforesaid order of conviction and sentence, filed the present appeal on which we have heard the learned counsel appearing for the appellant and also the learned counsel appearing for the State.
(4) of section 300 both require knowledge of the probability of the act causing death.
They reached the place of occurrence in another bus at about 1 a.m. The deceased and the injured were only then shifted to Tuni Hospital.
Blood was found by the police on the wall of the verandah and in the courtyard.
At that time, PW-2 came there and questioned the accused persons as to what they were doing, whereupon, the appellant and Accused No. 2 started assaulting PW-2 also.
