This was due to the negligence of the respondent Nos.1 to 4.
The trial court thus rightly noted that there was no agency between the parties.
The 5th respondent is the Union of India and has been joined as the authority concerning Television in India in the name and style of Doordarshan, which is a television media.
A suit was filed in S.C.Suit No.493 of 1986 in the Bombay City Civil Court, Bombay by Vicco Laboratories, appellant herein, manufacturers of ayurvedic pharmaceutical products against defendant Nos.
In the meanwhile, the respondents contended that M/s Brook Bond Ltd. who wanted to link up their commercial with 13 episodes and agreed to pay and paid the ruling market price.
The learned Judge of the trial court took the view that this letter nowhere mentioned that the respondents wanted to register their format on behalf of their producers which is consistent with the modern norms of advertising.
The trial court was conscious enough not to enter into the controversy whether during the particular account year ending on 31 March 1984 the advertising expenditure was fully exempted from tax or that there was disallowance of 20 per cent on that point and the decision regarding income tax deductions is not necessary as there is enough other material to show that the said bill was ante-date.
That the Doordarshan, which have been impleaded as a party, in their written statement stated that they recognize the respondents as producers of the said serial and recognize the petitioners as sponsors only.
It is probable that the respondents had obliged the petitioners by issuing these bills because the bills cannot be read in isolation but with reference to surrounding circumstances.
We decline to interfere with the order made by the High Court affirming the decree of the trial court.
Exhibit G-1 (which is Exhibit 27-A in the petitioners' compilation) is a letter written by Shri S.P. Agrawal, Controller of Programmes of Doordarshan to respondent No. 1, M/s Art Commercia with reference to the format for the proposed serial of half and hour duration tentatively titled "Musibat Hai" serial sent to them on 13 July 1984.
As late as on 22 April 1985, the petitioners communicated their displeasure on this display in the episodes as to the titles.
In one of the contracts (Exhibit H-1) the wording used is as under :- "Sponsorship of programme of 25 mts duration produced by sponsor entitled "Yeh Jo Hai Zindagi" including 2 mts free commercial time".
Are the plaintiffs entitled to permanent injuction as prayed for? 11.
In the year 1983, the said proprietary firm was converted into a private limited company which is the 1st respondent in the present suit and the 2nd respondent constituted respondent Nos. 3 and 4 as his proprietary firm.
The said team of the 2nd respondent responded to his appeal and took great pains and put in hard work in the said project and presented to him an exclusive and ingenious format of the proposed serial.
The aggregate amount of Rs.76.50 lakhs which was paid to the respondents for 60 episodes is not the amount for cost of production but the fixed price for sponsoring the said serial in order to link up their advertisement with the serial and avail substantial benefit of concessional rate under the scheme envisaged by Doordarshan.
In his further evidence, Mr. Gill stated that some time in the month of May/June, 1984 he had met Kundan Shah and requested to make a comedy serial for Doordarshan which clearly indicated that it is only the respondents who were dealing with Doordarshan. 7.
The trial court summed up the position that the two capacities "sponsor" and "producer" cannot co-exist in one and the same person.
The 5th respondent registered the respondent Nos. 1 and 2 as the producers of the said serial.
The 55th episode was telecast sometime at the end of November or beginning of December 1985 and thus there was a time gap of 7/8 months between the protest and the telecast of the 55th episode.
Petitioners agreed to link up their ads with 26 episodes of the said serial.
When these factors had not been established and the suit is itself not dependent on the interpretation of section 17 of the Copyright Act, pleadings and issues raised did not attract the same.
The High Court observed that the petitioners had no knowledge of the Doordarshan scheme regarding the sponsored programme and linking of 2 minutes advertisement and agreed with the findings of the trial court that it is improbable for the respondents to have agreed to reduce its income in the form of commission and undertake the responsible job of production of the serial.
The 5th respondent thereafter decided to entertain/welcome and/or encourage the proposals from the private producers to produce such serials or films at their own cost and responsibility and under the said scheme the advertisers desirous of linking up their advertisements with such films or serials were required to negotiate and settle directly with the producers of such films and/or serials, the royalty or consideration payable to such producers for linking up their advertisements and commercials with their film/serial and under the said scheme further, such advertisements were offered handsome concessions in the rates of advertisements for display of their ads on TV.
The trial court ultimately came to the conclusion that the spade work on the production of the suit serial had already started before 11 July 1984 and on that day for the first time film was presented to the petitioners.
The petitioners agreed to pay fixed amount to these respondents per episode for linking up their commercials with the said serial and not on the basis of the actual cost of production of each episode so that if the cost of production exceeded the said fixed amount the respondents had to bear the same.
1 to 4) in the course of their employment with the plaintiffs as alleged? 3.
It is held that words "produced by sponsors" would not mean that the sponsors themselves are the producers of the said programmes, as is clear from the Tariff Card.
On proper construction of the bills the trial court rejected the contention that these bills and payments as showing that they had borne the costs of production of the suit serial and, therefore, they are the producers.
The first and second respondents under the arrangement produced about 60 episodes and the petitioners have spent a crore of rupees for the products and telecast of the said episodes and have also spent large sums of money on advertising to popularize the said programme. "Yeh Jo Hai Zindagi" had gained popularity and had become one of the most exclusive and popular serial.
The petitioners agreed to pay the entire costs of the said production to the said advertising agency and requested it to look into the matter, employed various persons on behalf of the petitioners and prepare a suitable serial for them.
It was also pointed out that the name "Yeh Jo Hai Zindagi" is associated with the "Vicco Laboratories" and that if they wanted to obtain another sponsor they could produce a new serial under a different name.
But the respondents recovered the cost of production from the petitioners.
It was stated that certain bills had been given to the petitioners to suit their convenience in tax matters and there was no such bill submitted to the petitioners by the respondents when the petitioner had agreed to extend the sponsorship from episodes Nos. 27 to 52 and noticed the nature of the system of accounting maintained by them and held that the petitioners had got deductions in respect of the entire amount of the bill in the year which ended on 31 March 1984.
The trial court proceeded thereafter to examine the payments made in regard to production of the serial.
That the titles of each episode indicated that respondent No.2 is the producer of the said serial and the petitioners are only the sponsors.
It was also contended that the 2nd respondent is an artist and a film maker and has been in the field of film making for the past 20 years.
That there was no transfer of rights in favour of the petitioners by the respondents in the aforesaid letters and no consideration whatsoever was paid to the respondents for issuing the said letters which have no legal consequences and it was after the petitioners received the letter dated 19 October 1985 from Esquire Distributing & Servicing Pvt. Ltd. that the respondents were asked by the petitioners to issue another letter in this regard.
While traversing the case on merit they contended that it was all along agreed between the petitioners and respondents that the copyright in the said serial would rest exclusively in the respondents and not in the petitioners.
Thus it was found that the first 26 episodes the amount per episode paid by the petitioners was Rs. 1,20,000/- and each bill contained the expression "service charges" which was stated by the appellants that the respondents acted as agents of the petitioners for production of suit serial.
By their letter dated 02 January 1986 the petitioners informed the 1st and 2nd respondents that it was not possible to increase the costs of production for the episodes and that in the circumstances, the production of the serial may stop.
That the video rights were assigned to Esquire Distributing & Servicing Pvt. Ltd. by the respondents pursuant to letters dated 14 December 1984 and 15 November 1985 and had received royalty for the video rights and the original U-matic cassettes were returned to them by Esquire Distributing & Servicing Pvt. Ltd. as their property.
The petitioners were also not able to prove that the entire serial rights including the exclusive right to use the title thereof belonged to the petitioners as alleged.
G.K.Pendharkar, the Managing Director of petitioner No.1 was asked to come to view the format of the programme and the petitioners were not even acquainted with the format of the serial while the respondents had taken concrete steps in this regard prior to the letter dated 11 July 1984.
The petitioners claimed that the exclusive right to use the title thereof belonged to them and the 2nd episode of "Yeh Jo Hai Zindagi" was telecast without the name of the petitioners being mentioned as sponsors nor was their advertisement shown.
