v. Wauchope per Lord Brougham, [1842] 8 CL & F 700, 720; British Railways Board v. Pickin, [1974] 1 All ER 609.
Nor is it desirable to seek analogies and look to distant cousins for guidance.
That is not ruled out.
10.  The three observations made by us are well-settled and wellfounded on authority.
It is no adaptation of the rule to meet the situational urgency.
Thus, the ups and downs of commerce are inevitable and it is not possible to devise a fool proof system to take care of every possible defect and objection.
It was, however, submitted that the guidelines were not adhered to and that facts and figures were arbitrarily assumed.
If that was not done, the remedy would become illusory.
We will not deluge ourselves with more facts and figures.
The characterization of an administrative act as legislative instead of judicial is thus of great significance." XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX X "As a federal court has recently pointed out, there is no "bright line" between rule-making and adjudication.
It is intended to operate in the future.
Any attempt to draw a distinct line between legislative and administrative functions, it has been said, is 'difficult in theory and impossible in practice'.
These are not matters for investigation in a petition under article 226 of the Constitution or under article 32 of the Constitution.
The court pointed out that it would be impermissible to interpret a statutory instrument to exclude natural justice unless the language of the instrument left no option to the court.
He said that obsolete quantitative usages had been taken into consideration, proximate cost data had been ignored and the data relating to the year ending November, 1976 had been adopted as the basis.
" 14.  It was also reiterated that the decision in Shree Meenakshi Mills' case was based on a special agreement between the parties and therefore, had no relevance to the question before them.
In Liberty Oil Mills v. Union of India 1984 Indlaw SC 326, (supra) the question arose whether clause 8B of the Import Control Order which empowered the Central Government or the Chief Controller to keep in abeyance applications for licences or allotment of imported goods where any investigation is pending into an imported goods where any investigation is pending into an allegation mentioned in cl. 8 excluded the application of the principles of natural justice.
In such situations the determination of price may acquire aquasi-judicial character.
"M.U." means make-up referred to in para.
Legislation on the other hand looks to the future and changes existing conditions by making a new rule to be applied thereafter to all or some part of those subject to its power.
In Rameshchandra Kachardas Porwal v. State of Maharashtra, [1981] 2 SCC 722 1981 Indlaw SC 423 it was observed that legislative activity did not invite natural justice and that making of a declaration that a certain place shall be a principal market yard for a market area under the relevant Agricultural Produce Markets Acts was an act legislative in character.
(f) Expenses not recognized by Income-tax authorities (salary/prequisities, advertisements, etc.).
It was to be remembered that the mere fact that some of those were engaged in the industry, trade or commerce alleged'that they were incurring loss would not render the law stipulating the price unreasonable.
It is difficult to agree with these propositions.
The latter had said, "There is no right to be heard before the making of legislation, whether primary or delegated, unless it is provided by statutes." In Sarkari Sasta Anaj Vikreta Sangh v. State of Madhya Pradesh, [1981] 4 SCC 471 1981 Indlaw SC 607; it was pointed out that the amendment of the Madhya Pradesh Food Stuffs Distribution Control Order was a legislative function and there was, therefore, no question of affording an opportunity to those who were to be affected by it.
The most famous pre-APA attempt to explain the difference between legislative and judicial functions was made by Justice Holmes in Prentis v. Atlantic Coast Line Co. "A judicial inquiry," said he, "investigates, declares and enforces liabilities as they stand on present or past facts and under laws supposed already to exist.
It must be remembered that article 39(b) enjoins a duty on the State towards securing 'that the ownership and control of the material resources of the community are so distributed as best to subserve the common good'.
It is certainly not a matter at which the court could take a hand.
Alternatively, all formulations (other than those marketed under generic names) which have an annual sale in the country in excess of Rs.15 lakhs (inclusive of excise duty) may be subjected to price control, irrespective of whether or not the total annual turnover of the unit is in excess of Rs.1 crore.
It is true that, with the proliferation of delegated legislation, there is a tendency for the line between legislation and administration to vanish into an illusion.
Profiteering in the scarce resources of the community, much needed life-sustaining food-stuffs and lifesaving drugs is diabolic.
It may be questioned on the ground of a denial of the right guaranteed by article 14 if it is arbitrary, that is, if either the guidelines prescribed for the determination are arbitrary or if, even though the guidelines are not arbitrary, the guidelines are worked in an arbitrary fashion.
The case for the Union of India was presented to us ably by Shri G. Ramaswami, the learned Additional Solicitor General and the manufacturers were represented equally ably by Shri Anil Diwan.
In respect of each item of this list, it would be possible to identify the leading producers who account for about 60% of the sales between them.
It is contended that the Government is a well verse litigant as compared with private litigants and even if there is justification of adopting a liberal approach in condoning delay in the case of private litigants there was no need to adopt such approach in the case of the Government.
45.  It is a curious amalgam of a hearing which occasionally precedes a subordinate legislative activity such as the fixing of municipal rates etc.
He observed: "We think that unless, by the terms of a 'particular statute, or order, price fixation is made a quasi-judicial function for specified purposes or cases, it is really legislative in character in the type of control order which is now before us because it satisfies the tests of legislation.
Administration and administrative adjudication may also be of general application and there may be legislation of particular application only.
48.  In Vrajlal Manilal & Co. v. Union of India & Anr.
These particulars which he may seek from the Government are mentioned by us only by way of illustration.
10 and 11, keeping in view the cost of or efficiency, or both, of major manufacturers of such formulations.
Retention price, by its very definition pertains to individual manufacturers.
1964 Indlaw SC 194 (supra) the court held that the Union of India when disposing of an application for review under Rule 59 of the Mines Concession Rules functioned as a quasi-judicial authority and was bound to observe the principles of natural justice.
Paragraph 44 of the Statement on Drug Policy in 1978 dealt with 'pricing policy' and it may be usefully extracted here.
In such a case, if an "escalation" in price is contemplated at intervals, the object of controlled price may be stultified.
We do not think that there was any doubt in anyone's mind that the matter would be taken up in appeal to the Supreme Court whichever way the writ petitions were decided.
13.  In Saraswati Industrial Syndicate Ltd. v. Union of India, [1974] 2 SCC 630 1974 Indlaw SC 134; the Court observed, "Price-fixation is more in the nature of a legislative measure even though it may be based upon objective criteria found in a report or other material.
" The key factor in the Holmes analysis is time: a rule prescribes future patterns of conduct; a decision determines liabilities upon the basis of present or past facts." "The element of applicability has been emphasized by others as the key in differentiating legislative from judicial functions.
" 58.  Thereafter on November 25, 1981, a further order was made to the following effect: "After hearing learned counsel and with their consent, and arrangement has been worked out as on interim measure.
It is further prescribed that different prices may be determined, from time to time, for different areas or for different factories or for different kinds of sugar.
We do not consider that there is anything unfair in the procedure adopted by the Government.
If price increases, it becomes injurious to the consumer.
Rulemaking affects the rights of individuals in the abstract and must be applied in a further proceeding before the legal position of any particular individual will be definitely affected; adjudication operates conceretly upon individuals in their individual X X capacity.
While section 3(2)(c) contemplates an Order of a general nature, section 3(3C) contemplates a specific transaction.
51.  The learned counsel argued that there were several patent errors which came to light during the course of the hearing in the High Court.
The producer should not be driven out of his producing business.
Despite the pressing invitation of Shri Diwan to go into facts and figures and his elaborate submissions based on facts and figures, we have carefully and studiously refrained from making any reference to such facts and figures as we consider it outside our province to do so and we do not want to set any precedent as was supposed to have been done in Premier Automobiles though it was not so done and, therefore, needed explanation in later cases.
The ceiling price will be determined taking into account the production costs and a reasonable return for the units which are the market leaders.
4.  We start with the observation, 'Price-fixation is neither the function nor the forte of the Court'.
It is impossible to conceive that they cannot sit across the table and discuss item by item with the reviewing authority unless they are furnished in advance full details and particulars.
It is open to the subordinate legislating authority to adopt a rough and ready but otherwise not unreasonable formula rather than a needlessly intricate so-called scientific formula.
The observation of Magarry, J. in Bates v. Lord Hailsha, of St. Marylebone [1972] 1 WLR 1973 that the rules of natural justice do not run in the sphere of legislation, primary or delegated, was cited with approval and two well known text books writers Paul Kackson and Wades H.W.R. were also quoted.
The cost of production, a reasonable return to the producer of the commodity are to be taken into account.
If time is allowed to lapse whatever price is fixed, it soon becomes out of date.
If the function is treated as legislative in nature, there is no right to notice and hearing, unless a statute expressly requires them.
We concern ourselves neither with the policy nor with the rates.
Apart from the fact that an appeal is ordinarily considered to be a continuation of the original proceeding, in the present case, we notice that further orders of the Supreme Court were also in contemplation and such further orders could only be if appeals were preferred to the Supreme Court.
As we said we do not propose to examine this question as we do not want to constitute ourselves into a court of appeal over the Government in the matter of price fixation.
We, therefore, condone the delay, grant special leave in all the petitions for special leave and direct the appeals to be listed for hearing on May 1, 1987.
11.  In Shree Meenakshi Mills Ltd. v. Union of India, [1974] 1 SCC 468 1973 Indlaw SC 291 a notification fixing the ex-factory price of certain counts of cotton yarn was questioned on the ground that the price had been arbitrarily fixed.
We are of the view that the undertakings given by the parties in the present cases were intended to and do continue to subsist.
Indeed we find that the hearing given to the manufacturers is often protected.
Paragraph 14 contains some general provisions regardingprices of formulations.
He urged that the Government had always been ready and wilting to give a proper hearing to the parties and in fact gave them a heating in connection with their review applications.
The provision for enquiry in the first clause of paragraph 3 and the prescription of the matters to be taken into account in the second clause of paragraph 3 further strengthened the implication, according to the learned counsel.
In Prag Ice & Oil Mills v. Union of India, [1978] 3 SCC 459 1978 Indlaw SC 472 a Constitution Bench of seven judges of this court had to consider the validity of the Mustard Oil (Price Control) Order, 1977, an Order made in exercise of the powers conferred upon Central Government by the Essential Commodities Act.
For this purpose too, the Government may gather information from any source including the manufacturers.
We do not agree with the basic premise that price fixation primarily affects manufacturers and producers.
