The deceased was carrying fetus of two months.
It is settled law that common intention and conspiracy are matters of inference and if while drawing an inference any benefit of doubt creeps in, it must go to the accused vide Baliya Vs.
State of Haryana AIR 1999 SC 1083 1999 Indlaw SC 391 and Ramashish Yadav Vs.
Thereafter all the three accused fled from there.
Vs.
Identification proceedings in their legal effect amount simply to this: that certain persons are brought to jail or some other place and make statements either express or implied that certain individuals whom they point out are persons whom they recognise as having been concerned in the crime.
Merely because he has been some time in the company of the police at the police station his testimony cannot be discarded as untrue.
There may, however, be exceptions to this general rule, when for example, the court is impressed by a particular witness, on whose testimony it can safely rely, without such or other corroboration.
He became the unfortunate witness of a gruesome murder and fearlessly identified the accused in Court.
This serves to satisfy the investigating officers of the bona fides of the prosecution witnesses and also to furnish evidence to corroborate their testimony in court.
No defence witness was examined after the statements of the accused were recorded section 313 of the Criminal Procedure Code, 1973.
Dr. M. Deodhar, who conducted the postmortem, opined that cause of her death was neurogenic and hemorrhagic shock.
State of U.P. (1970) 2 SCC 128 1970 Indlaw SC 136 where this Court made the following observations:- "7.
This deposition clearly implicates accused Nos. 1, 2 and 4.
1. Leave granted in SLP (Crl.) No. 3737/2014. 2 These appeals are preferred by four accused against the common Judgment of the High Court of Chhattisgarh at Bilaspur, confirming the Judgment of the Additional Sessions Judge, Bemetara, District Durg, convicting the appellants section 302 read with Ss. 34 and 120B of the Indian Penal Code [hereinafter referred to as "IPC"] and sentencing each of them to undergo imprisonment for life with a fine of Rs. 1,000/-, and in default, to undergo additional rigorous imprisonment for three months.
These appeals have been taken up for disposal together since they arise from a common judgment of the High Court deciding the appeals of the accused.
In the present case, the child witness has been found to be reliable.
These parades are of the essentially governed by Section 162, Criminal Procedure Code.
In particular it was submitted that the role attributed to the accused was that he merely stood outside the house.
Spot map was prepared by the Inquiry Officer (IO); bloodstained cloth of accused Shashi Tripathi was taken into possession along with broken bangles; bloodstained cement mortar and plain cement mortar were also taken into possession.
The sole eyewitness was a boy of 13 years of age - Anil Kumar (PW-21), who worked as a servant with the family.
Mahesh, the fourth accused, was standing outside the house.
Jitendra is a doctor, resided and practiced at Khamaria, whereas his wife resided at Jevra.
Keeping in view the purpose of identification parades the Magistrates holding them are expected to take all possible precautions to eliminate any suspicion of unfairness and to reduce the chance of testimonial error.
He deposed that Doctor Sahab is her husband and Shivendra and Jitendra are her sons.
As a general rule, the substantive evidence of a witness is a statement made in court.
Mr. P.C. Agrawala, learned senior counsel for the appellant Mahesh (accused No. 3), vehemently submitted that this accused ought not to have been convicted section 302 with the aid of Ss. 34 and 120 (B) of IPC.
The learned counsel for the appellants relied upon the Judgment of this Court in Budhsen and Anr.
His statement that the accused Chandra Prakash attacked the deceased is corroborated by the recovery of knife from Chandra Prakash.
When he went inside, he found his daughter-in-law - Bhavna and wife - Shashi lying in the courtyard.
Shashi Tripathi, Mahesh and Binu @ Chandra Prakash were arrested on 29.11.2003.
The appellant - Raju @ Devendra Choubey (accused No. 4) has filed Criminal Appeal No. 822 of 2012.
Generally speaking, the Magistrate must make a note of every objection raised by an accused at the time of identification and the steps taken by them to ensure fairness to the accused, so that the court which is to judge the value of the identification evidence may take them into consideration in the appreciation of that evidence.
A test identification was conducted by the Executive Magistrate in the Sub Jail, Bemetara on 13.12.2003.
Shashi Tripathi had brought him home from Bilaspur.
State of M.P. (2012) 9 SCC 696 2012 Indlaw SC 343.
It was submitted that the test identification parade were delayed and the identification of these accused by the witness in Court was not reliable.
The evidence in order to carry conviction should ordinarily clarify as to how and under what circumstances he came to pick out the particular accused person and the details of the part which the accused played in the crime in question with reasonable particularity.
Bhavna was dead.
It is for this reason that the identification parades in this case seem to have been held under the supervision of a Magistrate.
He lived in the house of Shashi Didi.
The accused Devendra Kumar was arrested on 22.12.2003 and his identification parade was conducted on 26.12.2003- (within four days).
He did not even act as a guard because when the witness Anil Kumar (PW-21) came to the house, he was not even stopped by the accused from entering the house.
He referred to Bhavna as Bhabhi.
Bhavna was married to her step son - Jitendra Kumar in July, 2003.
According to the prosecution the accused Shashi Tripathi is the step mother-in-law of deceased Bhavna Tripathi.
In such a situation, it is considered a safe rule of prudence to generally look for corroboration of the sworn testimony of witness in Court as to the identity of the accused who are strangers to them, in the form of earlier identification proceeding, as observed by this Court in Budhsen's case 1970 Indlaw SC 136 (supra).
In such a situation, it is considered a safe rule of prudence to generally look for corroboration of the sworn testimony of witness in Court as to the identity of the accused who are strangers to them, in the form of earlier identification proceeding, as observed by this Court in Budhsen's case 1970 Indlaw SC 136 (supra).
In such a situation, it is considered a safe rule of prudence to generally look for corroboration of the sworn testimony of witness in Court as to the identity of the accused who are strangers to them, in the form of earlier identification proceeding, as observed by this Court in Budhsen's case 1970 Indlaw SC 136 (supra).
In such a situation, it is considered a safe rule of prudence to generally look for corroboration of the sworn testimony of witness in Court as to the identity of the accused who are strangers to them, in the form of earlier identification proceeding, as observed by this Court in Budhsen's case 1970 Indlaw SC 136 (supra).
In such a situation, it is considered a safe rule of prudence to generally look for corroboration of the sworn testimony of witness in Court as to the identity of the accused who are strangers to them, in the form of earlier identification proceeding, as observed by this Court in Budhsen's case 1970 Indlaw SC 136 (supra).
