Ever since 1974 till now in my old age she has been serving me with exemplary devotion and sincerity.
It is manifest that unlike a stage play a film has a much broader prospective, wider field and a bigger background where the defendants can by introducing a variety of incidents give a colour and complexion different from the manner in which the copyrighted work has expressed the idea.
By reason of the impugned judgment and order dated 5.12.2007, the said appeal has been dismissed.
Section 2 is the interpretation section.
From time to time I have distributed among my children all gold and silver jewels and ornaments and other valuables, which were gifted to me by my friends and admirers.
Any outstanding due to me and Bank Deposits and whatever assets or properties not mentioned above, that is, residuary after my death shall belong to Smt.
Decree for injunction is an equitable relief.
And she has cared and looked after me also during my illness which at times had been quite serious, enfeebling me for long period.
15.
In such a case the courts should determine whether or not the similarities are on fundamental or substantial aspects of the mode of expression adopted in the copyrighted work.
Where however apart from the similarities appearing in the two works there are also material and broad dissimilarities which negative the intention to copy the original and the coincidences appearing in the two works are clearly incidental no infringement of the copyright comes into existence.
The term "communication to the public" as defined in Section 2(ff) reads as under: "(ff) "communication to the public" means making any work available for being seen or heard or otherwise enjoyed by the public directly or by any means of display or diffusion other than by issuing copies of such work regardless of whether any member of the pubic actually sees, hears or otherwise enjoys the work so made available.
Appellants in their written statement, however, denied and disputed any copyright of the said dance in Dr. Karanth alleging that whatever work he had done was in the capacity of a Director of the Kendra with the assistance, finance and staff provided by the Organization of Mahatma Gandhi Memorial College Trust in respect whereof a Committee was formed under him by the Board of Trustees.
One of the surest and the safest test to determine whether or not there has been a violation of copyright is to see if the reader, spectator or the viewer after having read or seen both the works is clearly of the opinion and gets an unmistakable impression that the subsequent work appears to be a copy of the original.
Dr. Karanth expired on 9.12.1997.
For the aforementioned reasons, we agree with Dr. Dhavan that paragraph 12 of the Will, namely, residuary clause shall apply in the instant case apart from the areas which are otherwise covered by paragraph 11 of the Will.
Where however the question is of the violation of the copyright of stage play by a film producer or a director the task of the plaintiff becomes more difficult to prove piracy.
Our exercise in this behalf was only for the purpose of clarifying the provisions of the Act with reference to the findings arrived at by the High Court.
Malini Mallya and she alone shall be entitled to receive royalties of all my books and she shall be entitled to print, publish and republish and market the same.
Malini Malya only.
He developed a new form of 'Yakshagana'.
" The High Court, however, directed: "(iii) As far as the restraint order passed by the Trial Court by granting permanent injunction to the plaintiff is concerned, the same is modified by ordering that if the appellants desire to stage any of the seven Yakshagana prasangas in the manner and form as conceived in all respects viz., costumes, choreography and direction by Dr. Karanth, the appellants can do so only in accordance with the provisions of the Copyrights Act, 1957 in view of copyright in seven prasangas vesting with the plaintiff." 18.
Before adverting to the submissions made by the learned counsel for the parties, we may notice the issues framed in the suit, which are: "(i) Does plaintiff prove that late Dr. Shivaramaji Karanth had acquired copyright in respect of seven Yakshagana Prasangas and also in respect of Yakshagana dramatic or theatrical form i.e., Bhishma Vijaya, Nala Damayanthi, Kanakaangti or Kanakangi Kalyana, Abhimanyu or Abhimanyu Vadha, Chitrangadha or Babruvahana Kalaga, Panchavati Chritha followed in the plaint? (ii) Has the plaintiff became entitled to the said right under the Registered Will dated 18.06.1994? (iii) Does the plaintiff prove that her right under the said Will was infringed by the defendants?" 13.
The only difference I see in them is that the dramatic work (Plays) forms the text upon which the performance of the plays rests whereas a 'literary work' enables one to read the printed words.
A declaration that the plaintiff is the exclusive copyright holder in respect of Yaksharanga ballets, namely, Bhishma Vijaya, Kanakangi, Nala Damayanthi, Panchavati, Gaya Charitha, Chitrangadha, Abhimanyu Vadha, and for consequential permanent injunction restraining the Defendants, their agents, employees etc.
" It was furthermore held: "I am of the considered opinion that all the above changes brought about by Dr. Karanth in respect of Yakshagana Ballet leads to the inference that the imaginative faculties of Dr. Karanth permeated the entire Yakshagana Prasangas and thus a new look was given to the Yakshagana Ballets.
(ii) Dr. Karanth has made substantial changes in the original traditional form of the Yakshagana dance.
Keeping in view the statutory provisions, there cannot be any doubt whatsoever that copyright in respect of performance of 'dance' would not come within the purview of the literary work but would come within the purview of the definition of 'dramatic work'.
Directing the Defendants to pay to the plaintiff interest on Rs.15,000/- at 15% p.a. from 18-9-2001 till now which is 95-00. 4.
(l) the performance of a literary, dramatic or musical work by an amateur club or society, if the performance is given to a non-paying audience, or for the benefit of a religious institution.
The plaintiff, therefore, is entitled to copyright even in respect of the dramatic works namely the seven prasangas, by virtue of bequest made in her favour in respect of copyrights and books.
(iii) The form of injunction granted in favour of the plaintiff - respondent is not in terms of the provisions of the Copyright Act, 1957 as the appellant as an institution or otherwise is entitled to use the same in terms of clauses (a), (i) and (l) of sub-Section (1) of Section 52 thereof.
Explanation.-For the purposes of this section, the identity of an author shall be deemed to have been disclosed, if either the identity of the author is disclosed publicly by both the author and the publisher or is otherwise established to the satisfaction of the Copyright Board by that author.
Section 2(y) defines "work" to mean any of the following works, namely:- (i) a literary, dramatic, musical or artistic work; (ii) a cinematograph film; (iii) a sound recording.
(ii) The form of copyright as regards dramatic work as has been held by the High Court stating the same to be a part of the literary work is not correct as they connote two different things.
Section 17 of the Act deals with "First owner of copyright", in terms whereof, subject to the provisions of the Act, the author of a work shall be the owner of the copyright therein.
Malini Mallya, who has built it with borrowed money at her cost.
I have already referred to para No. 11 of the 'Will' while dealing with the topic dramatic works vis- '-vis literary work and therefore if the 'Will' is read in its entirety and if we take into account, the benefits that flow from the bequest made by Dr. Karanth in favour of the plaintiff, it is not as if the plaintiff received the bequest only in respect of the things which form the residuary as mentioned in para-12 of the 'Will' but the plaintiff also was given the copyrights in respect of literary works and all books as well as the right to print, republished and mark the literary works as well as the books.
2. 'Yakshagana' is a form of ballet dance.
The operative part of the judgment of the trial court reads as under: "Defendants or their employees or agents are restrained from performing the above said 7 ballets or Prasangas or in parts thereof in any manner as evolved distinctively by Dr. Karanth by way of permanent injunction.
Sections 22, 23 and 52(1)(a), (i) and (l) of the Act, which are relevant for our purpose read as under: "22 Term of copyright in published literary, dramatic, musical and artistic works.- Except as otherwise hereinafter provided, copyright shall subsist in any literary, dramatic, musical or artistic work (other than a photograph) published within the life time of the author until fifty years from the beginning of the calendar year following the year in which the author dies.
No one else shall have any claim or right over the same.
(2) In sub-section (1), references to the author shall, in the case of an anonymous work of joint authorship, be construed,- (a) where the identity of the authors is disclosed, as references to that author; (b) where the identity of more authors than one is disclosed, as references to the author who dies last from amongst such authors.
Therefore, the main classification as literary work and dramatic work cannot be construed to mean that dramatic work has nothing to do with literary work.
1,000-00 2.
