Her statement to the following: "I did not tell anyone that Balaprasanna took away the computer and threatened me.
Similar statement is made by P.W.4.
The fact that C.W.1 is a close relation of the deceased adds weight to his evidence rather than taking it away.
v. State of Hyderabad (AIR 1956 SC 316 1955 Indlaw SC 108); Earabhadrappa v. State of Karnataka (AIR 1983 SC 446 1983 Indlaw SC 161); State of U.P. v. Sukhbasi and Ors.
11.  We may also make a reference to a decision of this Court in C. Chenga Reddy and Ors.
18.  These aspects were highlighted in State of Rajasthan v. Rajaram (2003(8) SCC 180 2003 Indlaw SC 630), State of Haryana v. Jagbir Singh & Anr.
In this context, it is to be noted that C.W. 1 states that "M" Dollar was taken from him by P.W.42 for the purpose of facilitating investigation.
The prosecution version to the effect that even some signatures on blank papers had been taken from P.W.22 and C.W.1 thus assumes great importance.
Keeping in view the fact that C.W.1 is a close relation of the deceased and obviously interested in punishing the real culprit, such a statement coming from C.W.1 cannot be slightly brushed aside.
The subsequent statement spoken to by P.W.42, the subsequent Investigating Officer, is alleged to have been made only in September, 2003, after about five months.
33.  The fact that there had been a statement allegedly made by P.W.1 leading to recovery of a parallel key from the dash board of the car of P.W.1, cannot be lost sight of.
In this context, it is also note worthy to indicate that C.W.1 in his evidence has stated that the accused was in police station on 24-4-2003 itself.
The First Information Report was lodged by P.W.1 on 24-4-2003 at about 9.30 A.M. It was indicated in the First Information Report that on 24.4.2003 at 9.00 A.M., while the informant had gone to perform pooja in the first floor of the house, he got foul smell in the last room of the first floor and found blood seeping through the front door.
For the aforesaid purpose, they have relied upon the evidence of P.W.42 and the seizure witness P.W.24.
P.W.22, who is a close relation of the deceased (cousin) has stated that two days after the occurrence after the information that Bala Prasanna was roaming near LIC Colony, Anna Nagar Police brought him to the Police Station and Bala Prasanna was arrested at 5.00 P.M. and was taken to the police station and a witness was present there.
The fact that P.W.9 had not initially stated anything before P.W.40 about the accused coming down with computer at 3.30 P.M. and stated so for the first time when she was re-examined after 5 months cannot be lost sight of.
The accused was convicted for offence punishable under Section 302 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 (in short the 'IPC') and sentenced to undergo imprisonment for life and to pay a fine of Rs.10,000/- with default stipulation by Principal District Judge, Madurai.
Initially, P.W.40 suspected the role of P.W.1, his wife P.W.2, P.W.3, from whose house certain incriminating material were recovered allegedly on the basis of statement of the accused as well as P.W.4, who was working as a cleaner in the vehicle of P.W.1.
It has been accepted by the prosecution that great efforts were made by PW 40 to falsely implicate to PWs 1 to 4 and for that purpose a departmental proceeding was initiated.
" 26.  Significantly, the prosecution has relied upon the evidence of PW 40 who was investigating initially.
I do not tell this even to P.W.1..." 31.  The next recovery relates to the ingots.
In Bhagat Ram v. State of Punjab (AIR 1954 SC 621 1954 Indlaw SC 188), it was laid down that where the case depends upon the conclusion drawn from circumstances the cumulative effect of the circumstances must be such as to negative the innocence of the accused and bring the offences home beyond any reasonable doubt.
Unfortunately, for the prosecution there is no evidence to show that in fact the wearing apparels containing bloodstains belonged to the accused, save and except the alleged confessional statement.
Subsequently on the basis of the order of the High Court, such investigation was completed by P.W.42.The accused is stated to have been arrested on suspicion on 26.4.2003.
(5) He must be in the custody of a police officer.
Subsequently, however, P.W.42, who took over investigation from P.W.40 filed charge-sheet only against the present appellant on the footing that P.Ws. 1 to 4 had no role to play in the crime.
23.  As observed in Pulukuri Kottaya's case 1946 Indlaw PC 23 (supra) it can seldom happen that information leading to the discovery of a fact forms the foundation of the prosecution case.
Even accepting that the computer had been given to P.W.15 by the accused, such circumstance by itself does not unerringly points towards the guilt of the accused either in respect of offence of murder or even robbery.
1.  Challenge in this appeal is to the order of a Division Bench of Madras High Court allowing the appeal filed by the respondent (hereinafter referred to as the 'accused').
5.  The prosecution relied upon only circumstantial evidence, namely, confessional statements of the accused leading to recovery of various incriminating materials.
28.  The alleged statement made by the accused led to discovery of knife, bloodstained clothes, rope, etc.
The prosecution has also relied upon the alleged motive to the effect that the accused urgently wanted money with a view to increase his marks in Mathematics and, therefore, the accused had stolen articles belonging to the deceased.
(d) Statement of the accused leading to recovery of incriminating materials such as knife, rope, clothes, wooden log and other valuable articles such as computer, gold ornaments, "M" Dollar and the key chain with key belonging to the deceased.
15.  There is no doubt that conviction can be based solely on circumstantial evidence but it should be tested by the touch- stone of law relating to circumstantial evidence laid down by the this Court as far back as in 1952.
His evidence has to be considered in the background of what has been stated by PW 22 and CW 1.
19.  The main circumstances relied upon by the prosecution relates to the statements of the accused leading to discovery of materials facts, admissible under Section 27 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 (in short the 'Evidence Act').
If the accused had killed the deceased and stolen those golden jewellery, there is no reason as to why he had also not taken ear rings from the deceased.
It is also to be kept in view that those articles were recovered from the house of P.W.3 and at the initial stage of investigation, P.W.3 himself was one of the suspected person and he was arrested.  Therefore, the statement of P.W.3 and his mother that those articles were brought by the accused and left in the upstairs room is to be considered with a pinch of salt.
It is worthwhile to extract such quoted observation: "It is fallacious to treat the 'fact discovered' within the section as equivalent to the object produced; the fact discovered embraces the place from which the object is produced and the knowledge of the accused as to this and the information given must relate distinctly to this fact.
