Despite such pressure, she was not able to get that money from her family.
This witness has further specifically stated that the said accused treated his daughter in a proper manner for about two months.
Such demand or harassment may not strictly and squarely fall within the scope of these provisions unless definite evidence was led to show to the contrary.
Onus has to be discharged by leading proper and cogent evidence.
In the case of Ashok Kumar v. State of Haryana [(2010) 12 SCC 350 2010 Indlaw SC 502], this Court explained these terms in some elucidation and the effect of the deeming fiction appearing in the section, as follows: "11.
This Court in Tarsem Singh v. State of Punjab, (2008) 16 SCC 155 2008 Indlaw SC 1962 held that the legislative object in providing such a radius of time by employing the words "soon before her death" is to emphasise the idea that her death should, in all probabilities, has been the aftermath of such cruelty or harassment.
These matters, of course, will have to be examined on the facts and circumstances of a given case.
For want of any specific period, the concept of reasonable period would be applicable.
It is the first criteria which the prosecution must prove.
This penal section clearly spells out the basic ingredients as well as the matters which are required to be construed strictly and with significance to the cases where death is caused by burns, bodily injury or the death occurring otherwise than under normal circumstances, in any manner, within seven years of a marriage.
They faced the trial and the learned Sessions Judge vide its judgment dated 4th October, 2004 found them guilty of the said offences and punished them as follows: "Hence A.1 to A.3 are sentenced to undergo R.I. for THREE YEARS and further sentenced to pay a fine of Rs. 1,000/each (total fine amount Rs. 3,000/-) offence punishable section 498-A IPC.
This clearly shows the intent of the legislature that these expressions are of wide meaning and scope.
28.  The Court cannot ignore one of the cardinal principles of criminal jurisprudence that a suspect in the Indian law is entitled to the protection of article 20 of the Constitution of India as well as has a presumption of innocence in his favour.
16.  The period intervening between the marriage and the death of the deceased is very small.
But, even the rule of strict construction requires that the provisions have to be read in conjunction with other relevant provisions and scheme of the Act.
They even refused to send her to her parental house.
Subsequently, the motherin-law of the deceased, again, demanded the balance dowry amount of Rs. 10,000/-, which he could not pay.
In other words, there should be a reasonable, if not direct, nexus between her death and the dowryrelated cruelty or harassment inflicted on her.
Maintaining silence cannot be equated to discharge of onus by the accused.
By a deeming fiction in law, the onus shifts on to the accused to prove as to how the deceased died.
19.  The expressions "or any time after marriage" and "in connection with the marriage of the said parties" were introduced by the amending Act 63 of 1984 and Act 43 of 1986 with effect from 2-101985 and 19-11-1986 respectively.
The appellant was charged with an offence under Section 304-B of the Code.
The definition of "dowry" is not restricted to agreement or demand for payment of dowry before and at the time of marriage but even include subsequent demands, was the dictum of this Court in State of A.P. v. Raj Gopal Asawa, (2004)4 SCC 470 2004 Indlaw SC 205.
She had informed her parents of the ill-treatment and the cruelty inflicted on her for non-giving of dowry.
Such a presumption can be drawn by the Court keeping in view the evidence produced by the prosecution in support of the substantive charge under Section 304-B of the Code.
A ceiling fan was lying with the witness and he gave that to his son in law, however, he protested the same on the ground that the old fan is not acceptable to him and he would like to have a new fan, which was bought for Rs. 650/by the witness and given to his son-in-law.
He confirmed the fact that Rs. 15,000/was given at the time of marriage and Rs. 10,000/was to be given within some time, which the father of the deceased failed to provide.
They faced the trial and were convicted by learned Sixth Additional Munsif Magistrate, Guntur for committing an offence under Sections 498A and 304B IPC.
In the present case, the prosecution by reliable and cogent evidence has established the guilt of the accused.
3 LW-13, Dr. M. Madhusudana Reddy conducted autopsy over the body of the deceased and prepared post-mortem certificate giving the cause of death as asphyxia, as a result of hanging.
The High Court of Andhra Pradesh, vide its judgment dated 26th October, 2006, while allowing the appeal in part, convicted accused Nos.1 and 2 for the aforementioned offences, however, acquitted accused No. 3, namely, Pathan Khadar Basha.
After bringing the soaps, she went to the house of the accused persons and found that the accused was absent and the deceased was hanging on one side of the room.
24.  We have already referred to the provisions of Section 304-B of the Code and the most significant expression used in the section is "soon before her death".
It was expected of the accused to explain as to how and why his wife died, as well as his conduct immediately prior and subsequent to the death of the deceased.
Accused No. 2, Pathan Nazeer Abi had given her some amount and asked her to go and bring the soaps.
In contradistinction to this aspect, the legislature has applied the concept of deeming fiction to the provisions of Section 304-B. Where other ingredients of Section 304-B are satisfied, in that event, the husband or all relatives shall be deemed to have caused her death.
From the above evidence, it is clear that the dowry demands were being raised by the accused persons persistently from the family of the deceased and for that they even harassed the deceased, by beating and abusing her.
" 17.  Besides examining the ingredients of the provision, it would also be necessary for us to examine the meaning and connotation of the expressions 'dowry death', 'soon before her death' and 'in connection with, any demand for dowry' as appearing in the said section.
The Explanation to this section requires that the expression "dowry" shall have the same meaning as in section 2 of the Act.
section 4 of the Act is the penal section and demanding a "dowry", as defined under section 2 of the Act, is punishable under this section.
The FIR was registered under Section 304B and Section 498A of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 (for short the "IPC").
This Court, in Ran Singh v. State of Haryana, (2008) 4 SCC 700 2008 Indlaw SC 120 held that the payments which are customary payments, for example, given at the time of birth of a child or other ceremonies as are prevalent in the society or families to the marriage, would not be covered under the expression "dowry".
At the time of marriage, it was promised that a dowry of Rs. 25,000/-, besides other formalities, would be paid by the side of the wife to the husband.
On 15th February, 2003, at about 11 a.m., the deceased committed suicide by hanging herself in the house of the accused.
Secondly, that "soon before her death" she had been subjected to cruelty or harassment by the husband or any of the relatives of the husband for, or in connection with, any demand for dowry then such a death shall be called "dowry death" and the husband or the relative, as the case may be, will be deemed to have caused such a death.
4.  The father of the deceased Pathan Yasin Khan, LW-1 and her mother Pathan Shamshad Begum, LW-2 were present at that time.
The statement of this witness i.e. LW-1 is corroborated by LW-3 and LW-7. 12.  It is stated by LW-3 that she knew all the accused persons as she was residing in the house of the accused and the deceased.
The expression "in connection with the marriage" cannot be given a restricted or a narrower meaning.
The unmarked property if any shall be destroyed after expiry of appeal time.
The expression "in connection with the marriage" even in common parlance and on its plain language has to be understood generally.
It is for the accused to show that the death of the deceased did not result from any cruelty or demand of dowry by the accused persons.
The accused Pathan Hussain Basha, his father Pathan Khadar Basha, and mother Pathan Nazeer Abi forced her to get the balance amount of dowry.
LW-4, Pathan Inayatullah Khan, the grandson of LW-3, went to the house of the parents of the deceased and informed them about the unfortunate incident.
Definition of dowry.-In this Act, 'dowry' means any property or valuable security given or agreed to be given either directly or indirectly- (a) by one party to a marriage to the other party to the marriage; or (b) by the parents of either party to a marriage or by any other person, to either party to the marriage or to any other person, at or before or any time after the marriage in connection with the marriage of the said parties, but does not include dower or mahr in the case of persons to whom the Muslim Personal Law (Shariat) applies.
