But, we intend to emphasise that he has lost his right to enforce the same in a public law forum.
[(1967) 3 SCR 65 1967 Indlaw SC 138] In Maneklal Chhotalal1967 Indlaw SC 138 (supra), it was held: "Therefore, having due regard to the substantive and procedural aspects, we are satisfied that the Act imposes only reasonable restrictions, in which case, it is saved article 19(5) of the Constitution.
14.  It is not necessary for us to delve deep into the statutory scheme.
The Bangalore Development Authority Act, 1976 provides that every person whose name appears in the assessment list or land revenue records shall be served with notice.
[AIR 1997 SC 2745], it was opined that the authority is not required to make a roaming enquiry as to who is the person entitled to notice.
[See 16 Halsbury's Laws (4th edn) para 1471] " 48.  In this view of the matter, it may safely be stated that the appellant, through his conduct, has waived his right to an equitable remedy in the instant case.
Existence of a public purpose and increase in the valuation of the property was admitted.
Waiver of this kind depends upon consent, and the fact that the other party has acted upon it is sufficient consideration It seems that, in general, where one party has, by his words or conduct, made to the other a promise or assurance which was intended to affect the legal relations between them and to be acted on accordingly, then, once the other party has taken him at his word and acted on it, so as to alter his position, the party who gave the promise or assurance cannot afterwards be allowed to revert to the previous legal relationship as if no such promise or assurance had been made by him, but he must accept their legal relations subject to the qualification which he has himself so introduced, even though it is not supported in point of law by any consideration.
They were separated not only by a road but also by various other plots.
29.  A person interested in continuing to keep possession over a property and/ or a part of the amount of compensation must lay his claim before the appropriate authority at the appropriate stage.
And, the said land is now vested in the Municipal Corporation from 1.7.1999, and is of the ownership of the Municipal Corporation.
v. State of Gujarat & Anr.
12.  Mr. Prashant G. Desai, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent No. 1, on the other hand, would submit: (i) Public notices having been issued in terms of the Rule 26 of the Rules, an objection which would nullify the Scheme cannot be entertained at this stage.
" 9.  A Division Bench of the High Court dismissed an intra-court appeal preferred thereagainst. 10.  Mr. U.U. Lalit, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant, in support of this appeal, inter alia would submit: "(i) The provisions of Ss. 52 and 81 being imperative in character, no acquisition of land is permissible without service of any notice upon the persons interested which would include a tenant in occupation and carrying on business thereon.
He did not take any part in the proceedings therefor.
There exists a distinction in the Action of the planning authority as regards vesting of a property in it and one so as to enable it to create a third party interest vis-'- vis for the purpose of re-allotment thereof.
50.  We, therefore, are of the opinion that in this case, no relief can be granted to the appellant.
The Government of Gujarat in exercise of its power conferred upon it section 65 of the Act made a scheme in respect of the town of Umra, Surat on 1.06.1999.
[1969 (3) SCR 341 1969 Indlaw SC 254], opined that when a development is made, the owner of the property gets much more than what would have he got, if the same remained undeveloped in the process as by reason thereof he gets the benefit of living in a developed town having good town planning.
68 - Power of appropriate authority to evict summarily On and after the date on which a preliminary scheme comes into force, any person continuing to occupy any land which he is not entitled to occupy under the preliminary scheme shall, in accordance with the prescribed procedure, be summarily evicted by the appropriate authority.
In the said writ petition, it was prayed: " On the facts and circumstances mentioned herein above, the Petitioner prays to your Lordships that: (A) Be pleased to issue writ of Mandamus or writ in the nature of Mandamus or appropriate writ, order or direction, quashing and setting aside the impugned action of acquiring and demolishing the structures available on the land in question, i.e., Original Plot No. 17/A - R.S. No. 17/P, situated at Umra, Surat.
It is to my mind a clear principle of equity, and I have no doubt there are abundant authorities on the point, that equity will interfere to prevent the machinery of an Act of Parliament being used by a person to defeat equities which he has himself raised, and to get rid of a waiver created by his own acts.
33.  We have referred to the said decisions only to show that the requirements in regard to the manner of service of notice varies from statute to statute and there exists a difference between the Bombay Rules and the Rules.
(iii) The Scheme in terms of Sub-s.
34.  We are, however, not unmindful of the fact that a statute of town planning ex facie is not a statute for acquisition of a property.
Whether irrespective of Rule 26 of the Rules which prescribes for issuance of a general public notice, any special notice upon the appellant was required to be served by the State or by the authority, in our opinion, cannot be gone into by us in these proceedings for the first time.
16.  section 52 of the Act provides for the contents of preliminary and final scheme.
Respondent No. 1 herein which is the statutory agency in terms of the Act for the purpose of implementation of the Scheme issued a notice section 67 of the Act upon the respondent No. 4 on or about 15.01.2000.
A declaration of intention to make a scheme is to be notified whereafter a draft scheme may be published.
For the reasons aforementioned, the appeal is dismissed.
- (1) For eviction under section 68, the appropriate authority shall follow the following procedure, viz.: (a) The appropriate authority shall in the first instance serve a notice upon a person to be evicted requiring him, within such reasonable time as may be specified in the notice, to vacate the land.
(3) of section 65 of the Act having become a part of the Act, validity thereof cannot be questioned at this stage as modification of the Scheme, if any, will have to undergo the entire process once over again which is not contemplated under the Act.
And, its pole demarcations were done by the town planning officer at site.
If the first respondent has expressly waived his right on the trade mark registered in the name of the appellant-Company, could he claim the said right indirectly? The answer to the said question must be rendered in the negative.
Sub-Rule (4) makes it imperative upon the Town Planning Officer to "give all persons affected by any particular of the scheme sufficient opportunity of stating their views and shall not give any decision till he has duly considered their representations, if any".
If he intended to claim any interest in a portion of plot No. 17/8 either for the purpose of obtaining compensation for acquisition of a part of the land or to continue to have possession over 200 sq.
It prescribes service of notice in Form H. A copy of the notice in the said Form is kept at the office of the Town Planning Officer during office hours.
Respondent No. 4 was allotted a final plot bearing No. 157 and the said 200 sq.
Had such a claim been filed, the authority before making final allotment could have considered the competing claims wherefor a large number of factors were required to be taken into consideration, viz., the location of the land, the area of the land, the nature of right, etc.
The caveator was not brought into Court in any way until the caveat had lapsed.
17/7 and 17/8 were owned by Respondent No. 4 herein.
" 26.  Rule 21(3), however, of the Bombay Rules has been amended in tune with Rule 26 of the Rules.
(ii) Respondent No. 1 Corporation merely being interested in the implementation of the Scheme is entitled to obtain vacant possession from him so as to enable it to deliver it to the respondent No. 3 in whose favour plot No. 165 has been finally allotted.
37.  When a statute makes an elaborate provision as regards the formalities required to be undergone at every stage by the local authority, the State Government and other authorities concerned in preparing and making the final Town Planning Scheme, the same should be considered to be exhaustively.
13.  the Act was enacted to consolidate and amend the law relating to the making and execution of development plans and town planning schemes in the State of Gujarat.
1.  Interpretation and/ or application of the provisions of the Gujarat Town Planning and Urban Development Act, 1976 (for short "the Act") and the Rules framed thereunder known as the Gujarat Town Planning and Urban Development Rules, 1979 (for short "the Rules") is in question in this appeal which arises out of a judgment and order dated 27.12.2006 passed by a Division Bench of the High Court of Gujarat at Ahmedabad in Letters Patent Appeal No. 1611 of 2006 arising out of a judgment and order dated 23.11.2006 passed by a learned Single Judge of the said Court in SCA No. 7092 of 2001.
It furthermore provides that any person entitled to claim damages in terms of section 82 of the Act should communicate the details of his claim to the Town Planning Officer.
Therefore, a tenant or a sub-tenant in possession of a tenement in the Town Planning Scheme is a person interested within the meaning of Rules 21(3) and (4) of the Rules.
Any person affected by the proposal of the Town Planning Scheme is entitled to inspect the Scheme in the office where arrangements for explaining the scheme proposals are made.
20% of the land was taken over without payment of any compensation.
m. of land in plot No. 17/8, it was obligatory on his part to take part in the proceedings.
He, however, did not pursue his case in regard to the proposal for widening of the road.
It may arise from a party making an election, for example whether or not to exercise a contractual right... Waiver may also be by virtue of equitable or promissory estoppel; unlike waiver arising from an election, no question arises of any particular knowledge on the part of the person making the representation, and the estoppel may be suspensory only... Where the waiver is not express, it may be implied from conduct which is inconsistent with the continuance of the right, without the need for writing or for consideration moving from, or detriment to, the party who benefits by the waiver, but mere acts of indulgence will not amount to waiver; nor may a party benefit from the waiver unless he has altered his position in reliance on it" 42.  As early as 1957, the concept of waiver was articulated in a case involving the late assertion of a claim regarding improper constitution of a Tribunal in Manak Lal v. Dr. Prem Chand [AIR 1957 SC 425 1957 Indlaw SC 159] in the following terms: "It is true that waiver cannot always and in every case be inferred merely from the failure of the party to take the objection.
In this case, the appellant did not oppose the draft scheme.
The Privy Council held that the limitation of time contained in section 23 was introduced for the benefit of the applicant, to enable him to obtain a speedy determination of his right to have the land brought under the provisions of the Act and that it was competent for the applicant to waive the limit of the three months, and that he did waive it by stating a case and applying for and obtaining an order upon the appellant to state her case both, which steps assumed and proceeded on the assumption of the continued existence of the caveat.
