It is not possible to maintain one part of the award and supersede another.
Its work force consists of engineers and supervisors and different categories of workmen.
Out of 665 employees at Bombay, the draftsmen and the administrative staff number 306.
29.  This order was made in the presence of Shri Manak Gagrat, Advocate for the Company and Shri N. P. Mehta, Advocate for the workmen.
The particular character of the appellant, that it was a service industry and not a manufacturing concern, was taken into account and it was observed that unlike a manufacturing business there was little scope for diversification in the case of an engineering consultancy.
Nonetheless, the Tribunal observed, there was every reason to expect that the appellant would be able to earn sound profits in the future, and the instability in its business activities occasioned by the turbulent political situation in Iran, would be, it was expected, compensated by contracts secured in different developing countries.
During all these years, the appellant had continued to enjoy increasing profits; nonetheless the emoluments received by the workmen did not receive the impress of the appellant's growing prosperity.
That was the main issue between the parties.
The copy of the letter dated July 23, 1973, alongwith the Annexures from the Company to the Director General, Posts & Telegraphs, Delhi (exhibit C-27) indicates the important projects the Company was handling in India and abroad, and the amount of foreign exchange earned and repatriated.
The Tribunal has given satisfactory reason for adopting a different mode and we are not disposed to interfere with the award of the Tribunal.
The original award was completed and signed by the Tribunal, and it cannot be reopened now except for the limited purpose of Rule 31.
There is no order as to costs.
The Union therefore prays the honourable Tribunal to clarify the position and correct the award accordingly".
The evidence contained in the award throughout provides incontrovertible proof that this flat increase was never originally intended in the award.
13.  The challenge embodied in the second contention against the amendment of the award is more serious.
" 19.  And the clinching circumstances of all is that the award was made on the basis that the overall financial load according to paragraph 33 of the award would be to the tune of about Rs. 5 lakhs.
An accidental slip or omission implies that something was intended and contrary to that intention what should not have been included has been included or what should have been included has been omitted.
The amendment has resulted in the Tribunal making, as it were, a supplementary award, whereby a further relief is being granted beyond that granted in the original award.
The corrigendum amending the award in consequence is liable to be quashed.
No second flat increase was envisaged at all.
The application was as follows: "In the above reference your honour was pleased to pass an award on 20th December, 1978.
The financial capacity of the appellant, and the related study of its annual profits from 1968 to 1977, were examined from that view point.
In the circumstances the order of 22nd December, 1978 is invalid so far as it amends paragraph 23 of the original award.
Having regard to the net profits earned by the appellant from 1968 to 1977 it found that the acceptance of the demands of the Union would result in an increased burden of Rs. 7 crores, a burden which would dry up the appellant's resources and would be impossible for it to bear.
The statement afforded an indication merely of what the additional financial load would be if a flat increase was given to the individual workman on the alternative basis set forth therein.
It would do well to recall that the claim of the Union filed before the Tribunal also centered on the need to revise the wage scales.
We are not impressed with the submission of the learned counsel for the Company that the corrigendum was in effect a fresh award.
The Tribunal then considered the question whether Draftsmen should get a higher flat increase and the question whether the existing scheme of Dearness Allowance should be revised.
The Tribunal, in the present case, considered the matter and found it sufficient and in accord with justice that the wage scales should be restructured with suitable increments provided therein.
It was that figure which the Tribunal had in mind against the backdrop of the gross annual figures when it made the revised pay scales retrospective from 1st January, 1976.
These statements cannot be regarded as evidence that the appellant was cognizant of the intention of the Tribunal to provide a flat increase to the pay of each workman.
We, therefore, see no ground for quashing the order dated December 22, 1978 of the Tribunal.
Even so we propose to examine whether the correction sought by the employees union was within the bounds of the authority of the Tribunal or whether it was in effect a fresh award.
For the purpose of restructuring the pay scales the Tribunal ruled on the paying capacity of the appellant, both with reference to the profits of the preceding year as well as the prospects of the future.
These workmen are members of the Tata Consultant Employees Union.
23.  Accordingly, the appeal filed by the workmen must fail.
It is wrong in principle, it is said, to provide a fixed dearness allowance.
It cannot be the case of the Union that the figure of Rs. 5 lakhs mentioned in paragraph 33 of the award represented the result of adding a flat increase to the pay of each workman in addition to the benefits conferred by the revised pay scales and other awarded reliefs.
Finally, on the basis that the individual Draughtsman would be given an increase of Rs. 75/- per month and the individual workmen of other categories Rs. 50/- per month, the additional load was calculated at Rs. 4,63,092/-.
On the basis that a sum of Rs. 150/- per month was added to the pay of each Draughtsman and a sum of Rs. 100/- was added to the pay of every other workman, who belonged to the Union staff, the financial load would increase to Rs. 9,22,032/-.
If the dearness allowance is linked with the cost of living index the whole award will have to be reopened and the entire basis on which it has been made will have to be reconsidered.
It was urged that the Efficiency Bar, as a feature of the wage scales, should be removed.
In making the application of 22nd December, 1978, the Union invoked the jurisdiction of the 14.  Tribunal under rule 31 of the Industrial Disputes (Bombay) Rules, 1957.
Likewise, if a flat increase of Rs. 100/- was given to individual workmen of all categories, including Draughtsmen, the increased financial load would total Rs. 7,64,256/-.
Accordingly, the contention raised on behalf of the appellant against retrospectivity of the wage scales must be rejected.
35.  The omission of the words to each employee first after the figure Rs. 150/- and again after the figure Rs. 100/- was clearly an accidental slip or omission which the Tribunal was entitled to correct.
It is urged that the amendment results in the inclusion of a flat increase of Rs. 150/- to each workman in the case of Draughtsman and Rs. 100/- to each workman in the case of other categories, a result wholly unwarranted, it is said, by the intent of the original award and, therefore, falling beyond the jurisdiction of the Tribunal.
The award is a composite document in which the several elements of increased wage scales, larger increments, longer span of 20 years for earning increments, dearness allowance at 10% of the basic wage, besides several other benefits, have been integrated into a balanced arrangement in keeping with what the Tribunal has found to be the financial capacity of the appellant.
Implicit and intrinsically connected with the question of revision of the wage-scales were the questions of fitment of employees into the wage-scales and flat or ad-hoc increase of salaries of workmen wherever considered necessary.
The order dated December 22, 1978 of the Tribunal also does not reveal that there was any opposition by the company to the application for correcting the award.
The claim of the Union was resisted by the appellant, who maintained that the existing wage scales were fair and reasonable on a region-cum- industry basis and that it would not be possible for the appellant to bear the additional financial burden if the demands of the Union were accepted.
Since there was to be a flat increase of Rs. 150/- and Rs. 100/- in the case of draftsmen and other workmen respectively, the revised wage scale had necessarily to commence with figures Rs. 150/- and Rs. 100/- above the existing wage scales.
The statement then goes on to indicate that if a flat increase of Rs. 75/-per month were given to individual workmen of all categories the total increase would be Rs. 5,78,220/-.
The endorsement made on the application by the Advocate for the company does not indicate that the company had any objection to the award being corrected as sought by the employees union.
The terms of reference in the State Government's order required the Tribunal to revise the scales of pay and dearness allowance, and there was no mention of giving any ad hoc increase in the basic pay of individual workman.
The Order of the Court was as follows : 37.  In view of the opinion of the majority both the appeals are dismissed and there is no order as to costs.
If the pay of an employee does not coincide with any step in the revised pay scale, and falls between two steps in the reclassified pay scales, the basic pay of that employee shall be fixed at the step higher in the revised scale.
31.  In the present case the Industrial Tribunal on a consideration of the material placed before it came to the conclusion that the company was in an undoubted position to bear the additional financial burden.
One is the retrospectivity attached to the revised wage scales, and the other is the flat increase given to each employee of Rs. 150/- in the category of Draughtsmen and Rs. 100/- in other categories resulting from the order dated 22nd December, 1978.
It will be noted that the statement, Exhibit C-51, was prepared on the basis of the employees' strength as in December, 1971.
16.  Is the instant case one where the amendment made by the Tribunal in the original award can be said to correct a mere clerical mistake or error arising from an accidental slip or omission? To answer the question, it is necessary to examine the basis of the award and the intent which flows from that basis.
The only contention of the workmen is that the Tribunal should have fixed the dearness allowance in communion with the cost of living index.
At the end of paragraph 15 of the Award, the Tribunal stated: "But there can be no doubt that the company can very well bear the additional burden.
The need for revising the wage scales was not disputed by the appellant.
36.  We have already indicated that we agree with our brother Pathak, J., that the appeal (Civil Appeal No. 2300 of 1979) filed by the workmen should also be dismissed.
None of the alternatives was actually adopted by the Tribunal, because when the award was made the Tribunal proceeded instead to restructure the wage scales by the addition of Rs. 150/- in the case of the category of Draughtsmen and Rs. 100/- in the case of other categories to the initial pay in the wage scales pertaining to those categories.
The amendment made by the Tribunal has the effect of providing a second increase, this time to each individual workmen.
Taking all these factors into consideration, it made an award dated 20th December, 1978 prescribing the following revision in the existing scales of wages: 6.  The Tribunal maintained the existing schemes of dearness allowance and house rent allowance, and observed that in view of the revised basic wages there would be a resultant increase in the dearness allowance and house rent allowance.
