Law is sometimes blind.
Even so, a minimal narration of the facts and a brief consideration of each argument is necessary and we proceed to do so.
A/1 is inadmissible in evidence.
However, what followed is interesting though erroneous.
In short, section 27 properly construed, cannot lend itself to the meaning imputed to it by the appellant.
The appellant has received around Rs. 3,00,000/- but much more, according to him, is due and this controversy can be settled by examining his specific points.
Here there is good reason to depart from the old rule of full compensation and it perhaps legitimates the reduced rate of recompense.
If we may anticipate ourselves, none of the nine submissions has appealed to us, save to the extent the High Court has upheld.
But as the Court directed that no further evidence on behalf of the State should be received, Ext.
Point No. 8 has only to be stated to be rejected.
Besides the evidence already on record would be taken into consideration.
We are in agreement with the course adopted by the High Court and the reasoning which has prevailed with it.
But in such a case the materials must be brought to the notice of the petitioners who would be entitled to cross-examine the witnesses connected therewith and may give rebutting evidence.
Of course, when there is joint ownership, section 24 stipulates that the compensation shall be determined for the estate as a whole and not separately for each of the shares therein.
The High Court has stated that a large part of the delay has been 'due to laches committed from time to time by the Officers who have been charged with the duty to calculate the compensation.
The confusion that vitiates the argument is prompted by a circular letter of government regarding non-deductibility of income-tax due to the State from the amount of compensation lying to the credit of estate holders.
Moreover, article 31A repels the applicability of articles 14, 19 and 31 to the acquisition by the State of any estate or of any rights therein etc.
The integrated process has already been explained by us and will be followed in the proceedings to ensue on remand.
The short answer is that article 31(3) read with article 31(2) bars any challenge to the amount of compensation on acquisition by the State subject to compliance with the prescriptions in the said sub-Articles, on the ground that the amount so fixed or determined is not adequate.
In the present case, the appellant did submit the 'D' return to the Compensation Officer and adduced some evidence to substantiate it.
The meat of the matter, the primary question agitated in the appeal, lopping off the fringe issues of lesser import, consists in the statutory methodology and functionaries prescribed by the Act for quantifying the compensation and the compliance therewith by the statutory machinery in the case of the appellant.
If the officer had no jurisdiction, the land would be gone because of the vesting provision and no compensation would be forthcoming for want of jurisdiction-a consequence the appellant never wants.
Indeed, if the Actual income were to be the foundation for computation of compensation on the premise that not actual income has accrued, the compensation might be zero.
The compensation case is to be disposed of by the compensation officer within six months from today (104-1969) with intimation to this Court.
For the purposes of the law, the rupee of long ago is the same as the rupee of today, although for the purposes of the market place and cost-of living, the housewife's answer may be different.
We are directly concerned with the issue of compensation which is dealt with, as earlier stated, in Chapter V of the Act.
On the other hand, statutory compensation is provided for on the formula of assumed income in the previous year.
It is astonishing that anyone should urge, as the appellant did, that the date of vesting is the last date by which the calculation of compensation should have been made and since that had not been done, the Compensation Officer had become functus officio in awarding compensation.
If a notional income on the assumed basis can be used for fixing compensation, a notional income-tax can be calculated and deducted.
Before the date of vesting the State never can, nor does, fix the compensation through the Compensation officer in any of the agrarian reform laws, and these compensation operations are post statutory exercises.
We need not go into this detail except for the purpose of noticing that what the Chief Conservator did was not to approve wholly or in a modified form what the Forest Officer did but to make his own appraisal independently and without reference to the report of the statutory functionary, viz., the Forest Officer.
For convenience of reference, we may extract the statement by the High Court of the contentions urged before it (and repeated before us) by the appellant:- "(1) The provisions of section 37(3) read with section 26(2) (b) (v) of the Act make it clear that the date of vesting is the last date by which the calculation of compensation should have been made.
Both the State and the appellant filed appeals to the Collector which were dismissed.
Under Rule 13(1-c) of the Orissa Estates Abolition Rules, 1952 the compensation officer may rely upon such other materials as may otherwise be ascertained by him.
section 26 has great relevance as it lays down the method of arriving at the gross asset and section 27 has like significance as it focuses on the manner in which the net income from an estate shall be computed by deducting certain items from the gross asset of the estate.
Nor is it right to contend, as the appellant did, that the Compensation Officer's jurisdiction was created by the order of remand by the High Court.
It is this Court which, by its order dated 10-4-1969 in Civil Revisions 201, 202 and 203 of 1968 conferred new jurisdiction on the Compensation Officer to deal freshly with the case and therefore notwithstanding anything contained in the Act, the compensation has to be calculated according to the directions given by the Court; (2) The Court was fully aware of the statutory provision in section 26(2) (b) (v) of the Act, but in spite of it, the direction was that the Divisional Forest Officer should make the appraisement.
