The Air strip which was being extended is in one straight line with Taxi-ways.
It 1is true that when a witness has admitted having signed his previous statements that is enough to prove that some statement of his was recorded and he had appended his signature thereto.
exhibit DO review report which is headed Technical Administration Contract shows that the date of review was 9th February 1963.
of India, Ministry of Home Affairs on llth April, 1966 as per exhibit P.23.
After this F.I.R. certain statements were recorded by the Military authorities being DA to DE,DM, DM/ 1, DN & DL of Mani gain, Mulkh, Raj, Ganpat Ram, Telu Ram, Kewal Chand and Sukhchain Lal Jain.
The Collector gave his award on 26-2-63 in respect of these lands, which actually measured 49.47 acres, at Rs. 1350 per acre amounting to Rs. 66,784.50 np.
He had also given the approximate yield and the rate at which the crop can be valued with which the Collector agreed and awarded compensation.
That there was crop on 'the land is amply born out by a letter of the Appellant dated 12th February 1963 addressed to Mr. G. L. Nagpal, Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Sirsa.
In fact the order specifically mentions thisprovision while granting sanction.
This agreement was signed both by the Appellant and P.W. 14.
A regular case, is therefore registered and entrusted to Inspector Baldev Rai Handa for investigation.
We do not see how this case can assist the appellant because in the first ace there is no question of an alteration, of the charge and secondly the circumstance that someone who is not a public servant abetted the appellant is hardly relevant.
This letter clearly indicates that some excavation was being done as otherwise there is no meaning in saying that final excavation cannot be done.
and which had been valued at Rs. 11,073.13 by the Revenue authorities, dishonestly or fraudulently allowed Moti Ram of Sirsa to misappropriate the said standing crop and thereby contravened Section 5(1)(c) of the Prevention of Corruption Act punishable with Section 5(2) of that Act.
We do not therefore think that there is any justification in the criticism that circumstances appearing in the several documents have not been put to him.
The work of the extension of aerodynamic was entrusted to one Telu Ram, P.W. 8 Contractor, with whom the trusted to M.E.S. Department entered into an agreement on December 3, 1962.
Against that conviction and sentence he -appealed to the High Court which maintained the conviction and sentence.
As, you know, the Additional Deputy Commissioner, Hissar will be visiting his location on 13th Feb. 1963.
Thereafter the following pertinent statement appears namely- "Now, today I find that the crops have been completely cut and as such it is requested that further necessary action in the matter of giving the alignment and possession of land may please be taken at your end.
It has been contended firstly that the High Court was in error in relying on certain evidence for convicting the accused which was not put to him.
Bhagat Ram's case was not concerned with the sanction but only with the question, whether the offence could be altered to one of abetment of an offence of Section 409 I.P.C. from one under Section 409 simpliciter.
The Khasra Girdawari exhibit P.3 would show that there was a crop of Sargon (Mustard) Gram and Lusan, at any rate on 20th March 63 at a time when the land has been shown therein to have been in possession of the Military authorities.
The work on that land is only at the stage of getting approval.
The appellant's statement is therefore belied by the documentary evidence which shows unmistakably that there was on 13-2-63 bumper crops of different varieties standing,on the land which was valued thereafter and compensation assessed.
Even if Exhibit DQ gave a correct picture, it could be in relation to the airstrip already in existence, as this would be necessary for a contractor who is charged with duty to carry out extension work to go on the site collect materials and get everything ready to execute his contract.
On these facts and after applying its mind as spoken to by P.W. 10 Kalra the Government accorded its, sanction for prosecution of the offences punishable under Section 5(2) read with Section 5(1)(c) and 5(1)(d).
The case of Jaswant Singh v. The State of Puniab 1957 Indlaw SC 59 was also cited by the Respondent's advocate in support of the contention that the trial of two offences requiring sanction was not valid.
We are aware of the argument addressed before us that some of the witnesses had said that the water channels had been closed in February 1963 and therefore no crop could thereafter have been standing on the land and must have been destroyed.
For instance it is quite possible that the person whom he allowed to cut the crop may be his own relation or friend in whom he may be interested and who may, however, not know that the accused was doing something dishonest in permitting him to cut the crop.
It is also incorrect because the ,contractor did not work on the acquired land since 1-2- 63 that position is reflected in the review report initiated by the A.G.E. on 9-2-63 (vide exhibit DQ).
Now on the merits of the case as we said earlier the learned Advocate for the appellant has referred to the evidence in meticulous detail and has commented thereon, at length but this Court ordinarily does not reappropriation the evidence with a view to arriving at its own finding as if it was a Court of fact and does not ordinarily upset the findings of the High Court which has on an evaluation of the evidence affirmed the trial court's conviction and sentence.
There is therefore no basis for sanction for a charge under Section 5(1)(c).
The fact that otwithstanding overwhelming evidence particularly of his own admission at the time he denies that there were ever any crops when delivery of possession of the land acquired was taken by him, further reinforces the conclusion that he allowed the crops to be cut away with dishonest or fraudulent motive.
On the next day another Notification was issued under Section 6 of the Land Acquisition Act on November 28, 1962 and in view of the emergency action under Section 17 was taken for obtaining possession of the land With a view to its development.
If this is not done, the evidence of the witnesses cannot be assailed in respect of those statements by merely proving that the witness had signed the document.
If this contention is valid then the conviction of the accused cannot stand and therefore it is necessary to deal with this matter first.
There is However nothing in this document to show what is the site of' which possession was handed over to and taken by Telu Ram on 10th January '63.
In any case we do not think that there is any validity in the submission that the sanction given by the Govt.
These cases instead of supporting the contention of the learned Advocate amply demonstrate that the facts which formed the basis of the sanction and which was accorded after the sanctioning authority had fully applied its mind to them, should be correlated to the particular offence or offences with which the accused is charged or convicted.
A chargesheet was filed against the Appellant under Section 5 (1) (c) and 5 (1) (d) read with 5 (2) of the Prevention of Corruption Act on 5-8-1966 after obtaining sanction from the Govt.
He had in anticipation of acquisition and execution of the work appointed A. B. Ranadive, P.W. 14 as Assistant Garrison Engineer who was to be responsible, for all the matters connected with the acquisition of land, demarcation of boundaries as an Engineer Inching for execution of the contract and responsible for the maintenance of the Air Field.
abused his position as a public servant and caused pecuniary advantage to said Shri Moti Ram and Kewal Chand by giving them standing crops worth Rs. 13,000 for a consideration of.
exhibit P. 2 is a certified copy by the Tehsildar dated 18-9-63 which shows that as per the Girdawari on 20-3-63 crops were standing on the lands in the village Ahmedpur acquired by the Military authorities for Sirsa 3 Airfield construction, the details of which were that the total land acquired for Airfield 49 acres, the land on which crops were standing in good condition 23 acres and the land on which crops were standing in damaged condition 7 acres and uncultivated land 19 acres.
