While settling accounts at the close of the year, 33% amount from the sum which may remain as net profit after deducting all expenditures, viz interest, discount, rent of the shop, rent of the godown, insurance, brokerage, travelling, telegrams, postage, salaries of employees, etc.
21.   We must take note of a decision in the case of M/s Kasturbhai Ramchand Panchal & Brothers and Others v. Firm of Mohanlal Nathubhai and Others, AIR 1969 Gujarat 110 1967 Indlaw GUJ 57, upon which the High Court had placed great reliance in the judgment under appeal.
We may mention that in Gundalapalli Rangamannar Chetty v. Desu Rangiah and others, A.I.R. 1954 Madras 182, Subba Rao, J. as the learned Chief Justice then was, held that there cannot be a subletting, unless the lessee parted with legal possession.
However, the document is silent as to where the business was started.
The High Court in revision reversed that finding.
This Court reiterated that although the High Court had wider power than that which could be exercised under section 115 of C.P.C., yet its revisional power could only be exercised for a limited purpose with a view to satisfying itself that the decision was according to law.
The respondent is the landlord of the two premises and these were situated at Raikhad Ward, Ahmedabad.
If a possible view has been taken, the High Court would be exceeding its jurisdiction to substitute its own view with that the courts below because it considers it to be a better view.
In Phiroze Bamanji Desai v. Chandrakant M. Patel & Ors., [1974] 3 SCR 267 1974 Indlaw SC 282 the question involved was whether there was reasonable and bona fide requirement of premises for personal use and occupation as also the question of greater hardship under the Bombay Rent Act and the ambit and scope of the power of Section 29(3) of the said Act with which we are concerned came up for consideration.
" 17.   The ambit and power of revision generally and in particular with respect to the provisions with which we are concerned have from time to time come up for consideration by this Court.
The expression "according to law" in section 35 of the said Act referred to the decision as a whole, and was not to be equated to errors of law or of fact simpliciter.
It was observed that under section 39(2) of the said Act, the High Court could interfere in second appeal only if there was a substantial question of law.
We, the parties of all the seven parts execute the deed of the said partnership to-day i.e. 22.9.61.
The power according to the learned Judge was of the widest amplitude to pass such orders as the Court thought fit in order to do complete justice.
While settling accounts at the close of the year, if the sum less than Rs. 1500 falls to the 0-03 shares of the partners of the seventh and eighth parts, the amount falling short has to be debited towards the head of expenditure and Rs. 1500 (fifteen hundred only) have to be paid in full to each of them two, and in those circumstances or if there be loss, the parties of the seventh or eighth parts have not been held liable therefore; and in the year or' losses, it has been decided to pay Rs. 1500 (fifteen hundred only) to each of them, after debiting the same towards the head of expenditure and in the year of losses nothing has to be carried to the 'Reserve Fund' and the loss has to be borne by us to parties first to sixth parts in the following proportion: 8.
(3) Whatever moneys that may be required to be invested in our partnership, are to be invested by the parties of the first, second, third, fourth and seventh parts out of us and the interest at the rate of 71/2 per cent per annum has to be paid for the moneys that may be invested in this partnership.
The document is Exhibit-69 and is signed by the father of the appellant and the appellant himself also.
The High Court on a reappraisal of these very evidence came to the conclusion that the partnerships were camouflages and were not acted upon and in fact and in reality the partnership firm was a sub-tenant of the appellant herein.
There is nothing inherently illegal or improbable making a provision of such a type.
The third partnership which is dated 22nd of September, 1961 also indicates as parties of sixth part the name of the appellant.
It is clear from the evidence on record that the partnership firm had undergone metamorphosis from time to time and again ever since the year 1960.
It may be mentioned that by the time the revision petition came to be decided by the High Court the suit had been decreed in his favour directing a dissolution of the said partnership and directing taking of the accounts.
The appellant was to bring his asset being the tenancy of the premises in question for the user of the partnership.
In that case, the question whether the appellant was legally married no finding was necessary in the eviction suit.
We must, however, guard ourselves against permitting in the guise of revision substitution of one view where two views are possible and the Court of Small Causes has taken a particular view.
Bhagwati, J. observed that the ambit of section 35(1) of the Delhi & Ajmer Rent Control Act which fell for consideration in Hari Shanker's case 1961 Indlaw SC 157 (supra) was the same as section 29(3) of the  Bombay Rent Act and therefore, he expressed the opinion that the High Court could interfere only if there was miscarriage of justice due to mistake of law.
There is a third partnership deed Exhibit-70 which showed that the deceased tenant Girdharlal had died on 1st of February, 1961 and so by the remaining seven partners with same terms and conditions, a new partnership deed being Exhibit-70 was executed on 22nd September, 1961.
As mentioned hereinbefore the learned trial Judge consolidated both the suits and in the instant suit being No. 553 of 1969 with which this appeal is concerned, it was held by the learned trial Judge that there was unlawful subletting.
This Court was of the view that what the High Court could see is that there has been no miscarriage of justice and that the decision was according to law in the sense mentioned.
The suit for possession is accordingly dismissed.
2.   In order to decide this question, it is necessary to decide the scope and ambit of section 29(2) of the Rent Act.
It is very much wider than that, when in the opinion of the High Court the decision is erroneous on the question of law which affects the merits of the case or decision was manifestly unjust the High Court is entitled to interfere.
7.  He has stated further that the suit premises were to be used for business and he could use it for any business and he joined in partnership with Defendants Nos.
It is true that in the partnership deeds the bank accounts were not to be operated by the appellant, and further that irrespective of the profit the clause of the partnership deed provided that there should be a fixed percentage of profit to be given to the partner-appellant No. 1.
Therefore, it was emphasised that there was a gap of time when there was user by the partnership firm of the premises in question when the appellant was not a member of the firm.
The Appellate Court so far as the material for the present appeal is concerned held that there was no subletting and there was only carrying on of the business in partnership with defendants Nos.
24.   This Court in the case of Bhai Chand Ratanshi v. Laxmishanker Tribhavan, [1982] 1 Rent Control Journal 2421981 Indlaw SC 244 observed that where lower courts applied their minds properly in deciding a matter under section 13(2) of the Bombay Rent Act, the High Court could not substitute its own finding for the one reached by the courts below, on a reappraisal of evidence under section 29(2) of the Act as substituted by the Gujarat Act 18 of 1965.
It is well settled that if there was such a partnership firm of which the appellant was a partner as a tenant the same would not amount to subletting leading to the forfeiture of the tenancy.
Therefore, it was submitted that the Court of Small Causes committed an error of law resulting in miscarriage of justice.
