By order dated October 7, 1993 passed by the Constitution Bench three questions were referred for consideration by a larger Bench.
The matters be listed for hearing on July 20, 1994.
We are informed that till date no appointments in terms thereof have been made.
But that was not done.
It was also observed that this fact was not disputed by the learned Advocate General for the State of Karnataka.
The hearing of the matters was, therefore, adjourned to March 18, 1994, on which date the questions requiring consideration by this Bench have been reframed to highlight the several aspects of the claims put forward by the petitioners.
Later when Raj Narayan Singh and others filed Writ Petition (Civil) No. 641 of 1991, this Court on June 6, 1991 directed to convert the writ petition as a contempt case for non-implementation of the direction issued in K. C. Joshi case' which was numbered as Contempt Petition No. 164 of 1971.
The said authorities shall verify whether the admissions have been made by the petitioners in accordance with the directions given herein.
The Governor was directed to make appointment by promotion to substantive vacancies to the post of Asstt.
The candidates so selected and admitted shall pay scales of fee as applicable to this class of students as determined by the State Government from time to time.
The Contempt Petition Nos. 65, 100 and 126 of 1992 arise out of the judgment of this Court in Keshav Chandra Joshi v. Union of India' 1990 Indlaw SC 270 in which this Court had directed to determine inter se seniority of the direct recruits and promotee Asstt.
Under this system, the colleges were allowed to admit students of their own choice to the extent of 15%.
In the light of that stand while dismissing the contempt petition, this Court directed the Sate Government to dispose of the matter on the basis of the representation that may be received from the petitioners therein against the draft seniority list within six months from that date.
Conservators, Forests, U.P. rendered on November 6, 1990.
" Dealing with Writ Petition No. 598 of 1993, the Court, after noticing that an agreement was entered into between the institution and the Government of Kerala according to which while 85% of the seats were to be filled by the Government and the remaining 15% of the seats were left for the management to fill up in its discretion, observed that since the basic principle in Unni Krishnan' as well as the order dated August 18, 1993 is that merit shall be the guiding principle in the matter of admission, a plea for discretionary quota could not be countenanced and it was directed that the said writ petition shall also be governed by the order dated May 14, 1993, as modified by addition .
The total number of direct recruits appears to be 215.
It is enough to record that Shri Vellapally, learned counsel for the State of Kerala, disputes the minority character of these institutions.
It shall also be open to the competent authority, University and the Government of Karnataka/Tamil Nadu to bring any such irregularity to the notice of this Court by way of an interlocutory application for appropriate orders in that behalf.
In the light of the respective contentions, the question arises whether the determination of the seniority is in accordance with the directions issued by this Court.
On March 1, 1985, the quota was increased by 50 per cent.
The admission against these seats shall be made on the basis of merit but it would be open for the management of the institution to adjudge the merit of the candidates having regard to the relevant factors.
In the rejoinder the promotees have stated that as on December 31, 1974 a total number of 140 posts of Asstt.
Their seniority shall be counted from the date of their discharging duties of the post of Asstt.
As on March 11, 1985, 32 more posts were created and the total posts available were 218.
With regard to Writ Petition No. 284 of 1993 it was observed that in the said writ petition the petitioner has claimed that no capitation fee is charged from any student and the fee charged is not more than (in some cases less than) the fees charged in the government colleges and that the admission to these institutions is made on the basis of an All India Common Entrance Test separately conducted by the petitioner and admissions are made on the basis of merit as determined in the said test, and further that in view of the reputation of these institutions, thousands of students apply for and appear in the entrance test every year.
In case of irregularity, any of the said authorities shall be entitled to call upon the petitioner to rectify the said irregularity.
It is made clear that this order is made on the assumption that the petitioners are minority institutions.
Therefore, they are entitled to 50 per cent of the quota in the tentative list.
That is a matter between the institutions and the Government of Kerala.
It is, therefore, directed that the admission for the academic session commencing in 1994 to the professional courses in the institutions which are claimed to be Minority Educational Institutions shall be made on the following basis: (i) In the institutions referred to in Writ Petitions Nos. 284 of 1993 and 482 of 1993 admission shall be made as per the directions given in the order dated August 18, 19932, for the academic session commencing in 1993.
The 50% seats to be filled up by candidates selected by the agencies of the State Government on the basis of a competitive examination/test as well as the remaining 50% seats to be filled in accordance with cl.
(iii) In rest of the Minority Educational Institutions falling in categories (1), (2) and (3) indicated in paragraph 5 of the order dated August 18, 19932, admission shall be made in accordance with the directions contained in the order dated May 14, 1993 in Writ Petitions Nos. 350 and 355 of 1993 as modified by order dated August 18, 19932, but the directions would not apply to the institutions referred to in paragraph 18 of the order dated August 18, 19932.
Conservators, Forest were available and their quota as per the existing rules was 25 per cent.
Conservators, Forest and the seniority of direct recruits shall accordingly be fixed.
Shri Verma appearing for some of the later direct recruits, contended that the direct recruits were appointed to the substantive vacancies as held in K.C. Joshi case' and their seniority was fixed in the judgment from the date on which they started discharging the duties of the post as Asstt.
Conservators, Forest, if not already made, in accordance with Rule 5(b) read with Appendix B and Rule 6.
The inter se seniority of the direct recruits and promotees shall be determined in accordance with Rules 5, 6 and 24 as per the judgment in K. C. Joshi case'.
Since the entire, expenditure of the colleges is borne by the State - the entire fees collected are also made over to the State - these colleges must be required to draw the students even with respect to the seats to be filled by the management from out of the State merit list, if any.
From the averments it would appear that 100 promotee Asstt.
of the said order shall be equally distributed between free seats and payment seats.
As per the ratio, the promotees are entitled to 33 1/3, per cent quota.
In that order the writ petitions placed before the Bench were categorised into five categories, namely, (1) unaided Minority Educational Institutions, (2) Minority Educational Institutions which are in receipt of State funds by way of aid, (3) Minority Educational Institutions in respect of which it is not clear from the averments in the writ petitions whether they are aided or unaided institutions, (4) writ petitions challenging the correctness and applicability of Unni Krishnan' filed by educational institutions which do not claim to be Minority Educational Institutions, (5) writ petitions which do not fall in any of the above categories.
Having regard to the importance of the questions involved we consider it appropriate to issue notice to the Attorney General of India as well as the Advocates General for the States.
Conservators, Forest, as they were initially appointed to the substantive vacancies.
(ii) In the institutions referred to in Writ Petition No. 598 of 1993 and similar Minority Educational Institutions in the State of Kerala which are governed by an agreement with the Government of Kerala the admissions shall be made in accordance with the terms of those agreements.
Similarly, out of the 50% of the seats to be filled up by the Management in accordance  of the said order, half shall be payment seats and the other half free seats.
Similarly, out of the 50% of the seats to be filled up by the Management in accordance  of the said order, half shall be payment seats and the other half free seats.
Similarly, out of the 50% of the seats to be filled up by the Management in accordance  of the said order, half shall be payment seats and the other half free seats.
