The tendency to exaggerate the incident is not uncommon and that an innocent person may be roped in alongwith the guilty ones is a possibility which cannot, in the facts and circumstances of this case, be ruled out.
We have heard learned counsel for the parties and perused the record.
There is only one injury which was received by PW-14 and according to the other prosecution witnesses, that injury had been caused to him by A-11.
The blood stained clothes of the deceased and the injured persons as also the swords were sent to the chemical examiner for analysis.
19.
That takes us now to consider the nature of the offence committed by A-5, A-8, A-9 and A-11.
According to the prosecution case on 11th August, 1990 at about 3.00 p.m. Anna Shety Band Patte, Mukesh, Ramesh and Prakash Band Patte had gone to the Vrindavan video parlour for watching a movie.
The jeep allegedly used by the accused party was later found in front of the house of accused Baloba Dombe, A-1 (who died subsequently).
That the incident arose out of a petty altercation between A-11 and his three companions with PW-10 and his three companions at the video parlour and later on led in the homicidal death of Popat Band Patte on 11 August 1990 and injuries to PW9 and PW14 was neither disputed before the learned Designated Court nor before us.
On the basis of the said report, an FIR for offences under Section 302/307/149/147/148 IPC was registered vide CR No.101 of 1990 at about 6.00 p.m. The inquest on the dead body of Popat was conducted and the body was sent for post-mortem examination.
These witnesses deposed that while they were watching a movie at the video parlour, A-11, A-6 and A-10 alongwith one other person had occupied the seats in the row behind them and when the leg of A-11 dashed against the leg of PW10, who told him to keep his leg properly, A-11 started abusing him in filthy language and threatened him that he would "deal" with him.
PW-9 was examined by Dr. Khiste PW-22 who noticed the following two injuries on his person: (1) Transverse superficial incised wound 10x1/2 cm.
Besides, the testimony of these prosecution witnesses has received ample corroboration from the medical evidence as well as the recoveries of the weapons of offence.
In fairness to the learned counsel for the State Mr. Madhav Reddy, Sr. advocate, we must also record that he conceded that in the facts and circumstances of the case and keeping in view the law laid down by the Constitution Bench in Kartar Singh's case [1994 (supp) Scale 1 1994 Indlaw SC 525 ] and Hitendra Vishnu Thakur's case 1994 Indlaw SC 1706 (supra) no offence under Section 3 of TADA could be said to have been committed by the appellants.
The blood samples of Bajrang (PW-14) and Baban Karpe (PW-9) were similarly collected.
At that time Baban Karpe, Bajrang Band Patte, Sanjay Mane, Ramesh Pawar were also present near the hotel.
To connect the accused with the incidents near the Jagdamba hotel and the Math, the prosecution has examined PW3, PW4, PW9, PW10, PW11, PW12, PW13 and PW14 besides PW7, PW20 and PW21.
Near the Jagdamba Hotel it was Bajrang PW-14 who received the injuries at the hands of the accused.
The defence plea of total denial and false implication has been rightly rejected by the Designated Court in view of the over-whelming, cogent and reliable prosecution evidence.
(2) Abraded contusion below right knee and front of right leg, 5 x 5 cm.
The argument is fallacious and runs in the teeth of the express provisions of Section 19 of TADA.
On a disclosure statement made by A-11 before the police and the panches under Section 27 of the Evidence Act and on his pointing out a sword was recovered from the field at Korti, where it lay buried.
One accused died during the pendency of the trial.
The learned Designated Court opined that though the identity of A-1 (since dead), A-5, A-8, A-9, A-10 and A- 11 as the assailants had been established by the prosecution evidence beyond a reasonable doubt, the same could not be said about the participation of the remaining accused.
None out of those who were present at the video parlour received any injury and there is no material on the record to show as to which community did they belong to either.
In view of the altercation, the complainants left the video parlour and went towards Jagdamba hotel.
They also assaulted Baban Karpe (PW-9) and Popat deceased, who had run away to the Math, after chasing them in the auto rickshaws and the jeep.
They specifically described the roles played by A-5, A-10 and A-11. PW-10, PW-11, PW-12, PW-13, PW-14 and PW-15 also spoke about the presence of A-1, A-8 and A-9 with their respective weapons alongwith A-5, A- 10 and A-11 near the Jagdamba Hotel at the time of assault on PW-14.
On the pointing out by A-10, the said sword was also recovered and taken into possession through a panchnama.
In so far as the remaining appellants are concerned, the evidence of the eye-witnesses and particularly of PW-3 and PWs 9 to 14 unmistakably connects them with the assault on the complainant party near the Jagdamba hotel and at the Math, resulting in the death of Popat and injuries being caused to PW9 and PW14.
Both the prosecution witnesses as well as the accused party left the video parlour threatening each other.
The appellants (other than A10) were as already noticed identified by various prosecution witnesses at the identification parade held by PW-32, the Executive Magistrate also.
PW-15 Waman Band Patte who is the owner of the Jagdamba hotel has lent sufficient corroboration to the testimony of the other prosecution witnesses in general and PW9 and PW14 in particular.
However, according to the prosecution evidence itself, during the assault, none out of the four prosecution witnesses with whom the altercation had taken place at the video parlour was injured.
, bone deep at centre of vertex, fracture of skull with laceration of brain.
(2) Transverse incised wound on right parital region, bone deep, 4 x 2 x 1 cms., 6 cms.
In view of the improvement made by the prosecution witnesses at the trial from their earlier statements and the infirmities already noticed, we are of the opinion that it cannot be said with any amount of certainty that the participation of A-10 in the assault or even his presence in the unlawful assembly at the time of the assault near Jagdamba hotel or the Math, has been substantiated.
The trial court for the purposes of consideration of the evidence divided the prosecution case into three parts namely; (i) the incident at Vrindavan video parlour (ii) incident near Jagdamba hotel and (iii) the incident at the Math.
Before we part with the judgment, we would also like to deal with a submission made on behalf of the appellants by their learned counsel that since the offence under Section 3 of TADA is not made out, the criminal appeal filed in this court, may be transferred to the High Court for its disposal in exercise of our jurisdiction under Article 142 of the Constitution of India, for the reason that a first appeal against conviction and sentence recorded for various offences under the Indian Penal Code by the Sessions Court lies to the High Court.
PW-19 was declared hostile by the prosecution and was cross examined by the Addl.
Under Section 12 of TADA the Designated Court has the jurisdiction not only to try the cases under TADA but also to try offences under the Indian Penal Code if the offence under TADA is connected with such other offences.
The commission of the crime with the intention to achieve the result as envisaged by the section and not merely where the consequence of the crime committed by the accused create that result, would attract the provisions of Section 3(1) of TADA." (Emphasis supplied) Thus, keeping in view the background in which the occurrence took place, namely, the altercation at the video parlour, which has a great relevance to determine the applicability of Section 3 TADA, we are of the opinion that the finding of the Designated Court that the appellants have committed an offence punishable under Section 3 TADA is clearly erroneous.
Out of the accused A-5, A-6, A- 8, A-10 and A-11 were carrying swords while A-7 and A-9 had satturs and the remaining accused were armed with sticks.
