2000_C_151
Facts
The appellant is a trust which wanted to establish a self-financing engineering college and submitted an application to the University of Kerala as well as to All India Council for Technical Education (hereinafter called the 'AICTE').
There was an inspection by a team of professors of the university and it recommended favourably when it stated that the facilities provided by the appellant would be sufficient for establishing an engineering college.
The AICTE sent a communication stating that on the basis of the observations made by the expert committee and the recommendations made by the central regional committee,state level committee and central task force as per the provisions of the AICTE regulation,the AICTE was granting conditional approval for establishing an engineering and technical college.
The abovesaid approval was subject to the fulfilment of specific conditions mentioned in annexure i and the general conditions mentioned in annexure ii to the said letter.
In the event of contravention of the conditions,guidelines,norms and regulations of the AICTE,the AICTE could withdraw the approval at any time.
Under the impression that the state govt.was to grant permission,the appellant requested the state government for permission to start the college.
Meanwhile,the Mahatma Gandhi university by their letter dated forwarded to the government a list of colleges and courses for affiliation during that academic year.
The appellant's college was shown as one of the colleges among the affiliated colleges for the said period.
The appellant sent a reminder to the government for permission for starting the college for that academic year and ultimately the government refused permission by informing the appellant by a letter. 
Thereafter,the appellant filed writ petition for quashing the said order and for a direction to sanction and establish an engineering college.
Issue
(1) Whether in view of the judgment of this Court in State of Tamil Nadu &amp; Another v.Adhiyaman Educational &amp; Research Institute &amp; Others,[1995] 4 SCC 104 1995 Indlaw SC 1631,the provisions of the AICTE Act,1987 occupied the field and it was not necessary to obtain the further approval of the Government or other authority? Whether any statute in the State of Kerala if it required such approval,would be void?
(2) Whether the orders of rejection passed by the state government were valid on merits and whether the university should have granted further orders to continue the affiliation solely on the basis of the AICTE permission?
Statute
U/s.10 of the AICTE Act,1987,it is stated that it is the duty of the council constituted under the Act to take all steps as the said council might think fit for ensuring coordinated and integrated development of technical education and maintenance of standards.
Subcl.(k) of s.10(1) of AICTE Act,1987  provides that the council might "grant approval for starting new technical institutions and for introduction of new courses or programmes in consultation with the agencies concerned.
Sub-cl.(1) of AICTE Act,1987 permits the council to advice the central government in certain respects,sub-cl.(m) 
S.11 of AICTE Act,1987 deals with inspection.
Regulations have been framed by the AICTE in exercise of powers conferred on it by s.23(1) of the AICTE Act.
Regulation 2 states that these regulations will be applicable to proposals relating to "(a) grant of approval of the council for establishment of new technical institutions including universities or university departments and deemed universities and for technical institutions functioning on the date of commencement of these regulations at degree and diploma levels; (b) grant of approval of the council for introduction of any course or programme in the technical institutions and technical departments or universities or deemed universities; (c) grant of approval of the council for existing intake capacity of seats and for increase in the annual intake capacity of seats in courses and programmes.

Regulation 4 deals with the requirement of grant of approval and for the commencement of these regulations.

Regulation 5 deals with the forms of the applications and regulation 6 deals with the conditions for grant of approval,sub-cls.1 of regulation 6 deals with the financial position, sub-cl.2 with the courses or programmes and sub-cl.3 deals with the power of admissions and sub-cl.4 with tuition fees etc.and sub-cl.5 with the staff and sub-cl.6 with the governing body of the private institutions and subcl.7 with other matters.
Regulation 8 deals with scrutiny of applications.
Cl.9(7) of the Kerala University First Statute.
Ratio behind the decision
The AICTE Act,1987 was an Act to provide for the establishment of All India Council for Technical Education with a view to the proper planning and coordinated development of the technical education system throughout the country,the promotion of qualitative improvement of such education in relation to planned quantitative growth and the regulation and proper maintenance of norms and standards in the technical education system and for matters connected therewith.
Sub-cl.10 of regulation 8 states that the decision of the council shall be communicated to the state government concerned or the ugc,as the case may be,the concerned university or the state board,the regional office and the applicant before 30th april in case the application was made before the preceding 31st december. 
As stated earlier,the above provisions of the AICTE Act,came up for consideration in state of Tamil Nadu v. Adhiyaman educational &amp; research institute (Tamil Nadu case). 
In the above matter,the state of Tamil Nadu granted permission to all private managements to start private engineering colleges without financial commitment to government but subject to conditions.
At that time,the AICTE Act was not on the statute book.
The government of Tamil Nadu granted permission to the trust for the academic year 1987-88 to start an engineering college.
S.10 of the Madras University Act,1923 dealt with various matters (including granting approval for starting new technical institutions),and that so far as these matters were concerned. 
It is not the university Act and the university but it is the central Act and the council created under it which will have the jurisdiction.
To that extent,after the coming into force of the central Act,the provisions of the university Act will be deemed to have become unenforceable.
Because of s.10(k) of the central Act which vested the powers of granting approval in the council,the T.N.Act of 1976 and the university Act,1923 could not deal with any questions of 'approval' for establishment of technical institutions.
All that was necessary was that under the regulations,the AICTE council had to consult them.
In the Tamil Nadu case,s.10(k) of the AICTE Act was referred to and the power of 'approval' for establishing a technical institution was considered,in our opinion,even if there was a state law in the state of Kerala which required the approval of the state government for establishing technical institutions,such a law would have been repugnant to the AICTE Act and void to that extent,as held in the tamil nadu case.
Sub-cl.(1) of cl.(9) of the Kerala University first statute required "verification of the facilities that may exist for starting the new colleges/course".
The commission was to inspect the site, verify the title deeds as regards the proprietary right of the management over the land (and buildings, if any) offered, building accommodation provided, if any, assets of the management, constitution of the registered body and all other relevant matters.
Sub-cl.(2) of cl.(9) of Kerala University first statute stated that the affiliation "shall depend upon the fulfilment by the management of all the conditions for the satisfactory establishment and maintenance of the proposed institutional courses of studies and on the reports of inspection by the commission or commissions which the university may appoint for the purpose.
The procedure for obtaining the affiliation and any conditions which could be imposed by the university,could not be inconsistent with the provisions of the central Act.
The university could not,therefore,in any event have sought for 'approval' of the state government.
The state government in its counter then gave the names of the existing colleges and their location. 
The court observed that there was widespread student prospects against starting new colleges and it was necessary to be cautious in the matter of starting new engineering colleges.
Government could not initially take a decision on the appellant's affiliation because of elections and that matter being one of 'major policy' the government had subsequently "taken a policy decision not to sanction any affiliation to such colleges either in the private sector or in the public sector for this year.
In thirwnuruga kirupan and variyar thavathiru sundara swamigal medical education &amp; charitable trust v.state of tamil nadu &amp; others,[1996] 3 scc 15 1996 indlaw sc 858,which was a case relating to medical education and which also related to the effect of a central law upon a law made by the state under entry 25 list iii,it was held that the "essentiality certificate cannot be withheld by the state government on any policy consideration because the policy in the matter of establishment of a new medical college now vests with the central government alone".
After an approval was granted by the AICTE or if the state felt that some conditions attached to the permission and required by the AICTE to be complied with,were not complied with,then the state government could always write to the AICTE,to enable the latter to take appropriate Action.
The only requirement as per the statute 9(7) was for the university to obtain the "views" of the state government.obtaining the 'views' of the state government,as already stated,did not amount to obtaining its 'approval'.
Procedure and conditions for affiliation could not be inconsistent with the provisions of the central Act,in particular s.10(k) of the regulation,and the university could not seek approval of government.
The university was also one of the agencies consulted by the council of the AICTE under regulation 8.
Once that was over,and approval was granted by the AICTE,if there was any default on the part of the college in compliance with the conditions of approval,the only remedy for the university was to bring those fActs to the notice of the AICTE so that the latter could take appropriate Action.
The approval of the AICTE was sufficient.
The direction to the Mahatma Gandhi university to consider the application of the appellant for final affiliation or continuance of affiliation is confirmed and this is to be done on the basis of the approval granted by the AICTE,or any other relevant factors in the university Act or its statutes,which are not inconsistent with the AICTE Act or its regulations.
Ruling by the present court
There was no statutory requirement for obtaining the approval of the state government and even if there was one,it would have been repugnant to the AICTE Act.
This special leave petition is dismissed as premature.
Appeal allowed.
Argument
In so far as institutions imparting technical education were concerned,the university or the state government had no independent role to play except to the extent provided in the above said enActment,in the present case,the AICTE had made inspections and was satisfied that the necessary infrastructure was available and that the appellant would be able to conform to the required standards of the education.
The AICTE had consulted the state of kerala as well as the Mahatma Gandhi university.
The university had granted conditional approval,as stated earlier.therefore the AICTE constituted a task force and obtained its opinion and thereafter granted its approval subject to various conditions.
The "policy" of the government was not to grant approval to self-financing engineering colleges to be established,such a policy could not come in the way of the appellant in view of what this court has stated in similar circumstances.
The "policy" of the state of kerala at the relevant time was not to grant approval for establish-ment of more engineering colleges in the state.
The government had clarified in the counter affidavit filed in the high court that the government "was not in a position" to take a decision to start new engineering colleges,without properly assessing the necessity of more engineering graduates from the state and without exploring the possibility of employment opportunities in the country as a whole.

