2007_S_608
FACTS
The deceased was daughter of PW.1 and she was married to appellant no. 1. about two and half years prior to the date of incident
The appellant no. 2, is the mother of the appellant no. 1 and both the appellants were residing in the same house.
A sum of Rs. 5000 and some gold ornaments had been given at the time of marriage of Bhimabai. 
For about six months Bhimabai was treated well but thereafter the accused started asking her to bring Rs. 1,000-1,200 from her parents to meet the household expenses and also for purchasing manure.
In the evening of 15 September 1991 a person came from village Palshi on a motorcycle and informed PW.1 that Bhimabai was unwell. 
PW.1 then immediately went to the house of the accused along with some of his relatives. 
There he saw that Bhimabai was lying dead and froth was coming out of her mouth which indicated that she had consumed some poisonous substance. 
The Police Patil of the village lodged an accidental death at the police station. 
On the basis of the said accidental death report, PW.6 Police Sub-Inspector, visited the house of the accused, held inquest on the dead body of Bhimabai, and thereafter sent the same for post-mortem examination.  
After completion of investigation, charge sheet was submitted against the appellants and in due course, the case was committed to the Court of Sessions. 
The learned Sessions Judge framed charges under Sections 498-A, 304-B read with Section 34 IPC and Section 306 read with Section 34 IPC against both the appellants. The appellants pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried. 
The prosecution in order to establish its case examined six witnesses and filed some documentary evidence.
The doctors during the post-mortem did not find any sign of external or internal injury on the body of the deceased and in their opinion, the cause of death was insecticide poisoning. The viscera were preserved for chemical analysis.
ISSUE
Conviction of accused  under Section 304-B read with Section 34 IPC
STATUTE
Two essential ingredient of Section 304-B IPC, apart from others, are (i) death of women is caused by any burns or bodily injury or occurs otherwise than under normal circumstances, and (ii) women is subjected to cruelty or harassment by her husband or any relative of her husband for, or in connection with, any demand for "dowry. 
The explanation appended to sub-section (1) of Section 304-B IPC says that "dowry" shall have the same meaning as in Section 2 of Dowry Prohibition Act, 1961. 
Section 2 of Dowry Prohibition Act- Definition of "dowry" - In this Act "dowry" means any property or valuable security given or agreed to be given either directly or indirectly- (a) by one party to a marriage to the other party to the marriage; or (b) by the parent of either party to a marriage or by any other person, to either party to the marriage or to any other person, at or before or any time after the marriage in connection with the marriage of the said parties, but does not include dowry or mahr in the case of persons to whom the Muslim Personal Law (shariat) applies.
RATIO
The main witnesses regarding the alleged demand of money and also harassment and beating to Bhimabai are her father and mother. 
They said that whenever his daughter came to her parental home, she used to complain that she was being subjected to harassment by the appellants on account of some "domestic reasons" and further that her husband had told her that while coming back from her parental home she should bring Rs. 1,000-1,200 for expenses and for manure as he had no sufficient money. 
It is important to note that in her statement under Section 161 Cr. P.C. which was recorded on the very next day of the death of Bhimabai, this witness did not state that the cause for ill-treatment was "a demand for money and a consequent beating. 
The evidence on record does not indicate that the police had any reason to favour the accused and deliberately omitted to mention about the alleged demand of money while recording the statement of PW.5 Sumanbai under Section 161 Cr. 
The evidence shows that the accused come from very humble background and they could not have exerted any kind of influence, financial or otherwise, upon the police so as to manage a statement favourable to them when in the course of investigation the statements of witnesses were being recorded under Section 161 Cr. 
In view of the aforesaid definition of the word "dowry", any property or valuable security should be given or agreed to be given either directly or indirectly at or before or any time after the marriage and in connection with the marriage of the said parties. 
Therefore, the giving or taking of property or valuable security must have some connection with the marriage of the parties and a correlation between the giving or taking of property or valuable security with the marriage of the parties is essential.
Since an essential ingredient of Section 304-B IPC viz. demand for dowry is not established, the conviction of the appellants cannot be sustained.  
The appellants were also charged under Sections 498-A and 306 read with Section 34 IPC but were acquitted of the said charges by the learned Sessions Judge, which order has attained finality for the reason that the State did not prefer appeal against the same. 
The appeal before the High Court and also in this Court has been preferred by the appellants challenging their conviction under section 304-B read with section 34 IPC.  
Therefore, this Court refrained from expressing any opinion as to whether the appellants could be held guilty of having committed the offence under Section 498-A or 306 IPC on the basis of evidence available on record as their acquittal under the aforesaid charges has attained finality and cannot be reversed in the appeal filed by the appellants challenging their conviction under Section 304-B IPC.  
JUDGEMENT
The judgment and order of the High Court and the judgment and order of the learned Sessions Judge convicting the appellants under Section 304-B IPC are set aside and the appellants are acquitted of the said charge. 
The appellant no.1 is in custody. 
He shall be released forthwith unless wanted in some other case. 
The appellant no. 2 is on bail. 
The sureties and bail bonds furnished by her are discharged. 
Appeal allowed.
ARGUMENT
The insecticide Thimet is extensively used by the farmers for preservation of crop and is kept stored in their houses and it could be a case where Thimet accidentally got mixed with some food item and was consumed by Bhaimabai.
No offence under Section 306 IPC is made out against the appellants.

